2024 ANNUAL REPORT

THE ENERGY TO

CHANGE THE WORLD

Building on over 130 years of experience, we are

leading a new era of energy—electrifying the world

while simultaneously working to decarbonize it. POWER

GE Vernova is accelerating the path to more reliable,

affordable, and sustainable energy, while helping GE Vernova’s 7HA.02-powered Long Ridge Energy Terminal in

Ohio, the first hydrogen-burning power plant in the U.S.

our customers power economies and deliver the

electricity that is vital to health, safety, security,

and improved quality of life.

WIND

GE Vernova’s 3 MW onshore wind workhorse turbines in

New Mexico, U.S.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This document includes forward-looking statements. Please reference

the “Forward-Looking Statements” section of the Form 10-K included in

this Annual Report to Stockholders.

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES

We sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial data but

not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S.

generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are

considered “non-GAAP financial measures” under the U.S. Securities and

Exchange Commission rules. These non-GAAP financial measures supplement

our GAAP disclosures and should not be considered an alternative to the GAAP

measure. The reasons we use these non-GAAP financial measures and the ELECTRIFICATION

reconciliations to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures

can be found in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis section within our

Form 10-K and in GE Vernova’s fourth quarter 2024 earnings materials posted

Installation of GE Vernova’s HVDC offshore converter platform for

to gevernova.com/investors, as applicable. RWE’s Sofia Wind Farm in United Kingdom waters (Credit: RWE)

FELLOW GE VERNOVA A STRONG START IN 2024

2024 was a foundational year for

SHAREHOLDERS

GE Vernova. In April, we became

an independent, publicly traded

company with a sole focus to provide

Over a century ago, the foundation for the our customers with the equipment,

modern age of electricity was established services, and software to generate

by General Electric’s founder, Thomas Edison. and transfer reliable, affordable, secure,

The result: industries have been built, education and sustainable electricity. Our global

GE Vernova begins trading on the New York Stock

has scaled, lives have been saved and the world team of more than 75,000 employees Exchange under the ticker symbol “GEV”

has prospered in countless ways. I’m humbled is guided by our purpose statement:

We also see nuclear power playing an

to have participated in a relatively short but “the energy to change the world.”

important role in the energy transition,

impactful chapter of General Electric’s 130+ year

We executed on our objectives with a leading to life-extension and upgrade

history which serves as an inspiration to me

year of strong financial and operational opportunities for today’s existing fleet,

today. The legacy of Edison’s original innovation

performance. We delivered disciplined while we advance our BWRX-300

is found in the global power system built over the

growth to drive margin expansion, small modular reactor (SMR) standard

last century where 25% of the world’s electricity

higher free cash flow, and strategic design for the future.

is generated through our equipment. Leveraging

capital allocation.

that legacy, today we offer our customers In Electrification, our fastest-growing

advanced technology and services to meet In 2024, GE Vernova booked $44 billion segment, demand accelerated as

the growing demands on our power system. of orders with $35 billion in revenue, customers increased grid investments.

delivered margin expansion across all Electrification provides critical grid

With the creation of GE Vernova, we have

segments, and improved our free cash components including transformers,

launched a purpose-built innovation company

flow by more than one billion dollars. switchgears and high-voltage direct

focused on what the world needs for today

We grew our already healthy backlog current (HVDC) systems, which

and tomorrow: a new company dedicated

to $119 billion while also expanding are essential to ensuring a reliable

to electrifying and decarbonizing the

margins in backlog, which will fuel electricity system. In 2024, we saw

energy system and providing the essential

profitable growth well into the future. significant orders and backlog growth

infrastructure needed for a prosperous and

In December, we raised our multi-year in Europe, our largest market for

sustainable future.

financial outlook and launched our our Grid Solutions business, and in

We approach our role with an enormous capital allocation framework, including North America.

sense of responsibility, knowing the world a shareholder return commitment with

Our Wind segment made solid

relies on us for the equipment, services, our first dividend and share repurchase

progress on our turnaround. Wind

and software to produce and distribute the authorization. We are well-positioned

improved EBITDA losses by nearly

electricity it needs. By nurturing today’s to create value for our stakeholders in

50%, with Onshore delivering high

state-of-the-art technologies, while investing 2025 and beyond.

single digit EBITDA margin in 2024.

in innovation, cutting-edge manufacturing, and

At a segment level, in Power, we Offshore experienced a tough year

lean, we see a clear pathway to grow electrical

delivered solid growth and margin as we worked through blade events

supply while addressing climate change.

expansion led by strength in our and project execution delays, but we

I enter this new year feeling more optimistic Gas Power business. We anticipate will be a stronger company for it.

than ever about GE Vernova, our industry, and this strength to continue into 2025

GE Vernova also invested for

the task ahead of us. In this first shareholder driven by multiple factors including

disciplined growth and innovation in

letter, I’ll discuss the progress we’ve made this demand from data centers associated

2024. As included in our December

year and what drives our continued confidence. with artificial intelligence, and we

outlook, we will increase capex

are investing to increase Gas Power

investments, raise our overall R&D

capacity. Services, both a major

spend approximately 20 percent in

business and source of cash flow

2025, and double our own internal

for GE Vernova, also delivered a

investment into AI programs.

strong year with orders up ten

percent organically as our customers

invested into their existing plants.

2024 GE Vernova Annual Report | 1

Company Performance in 2024

Dollars in millions

GAAP FY24 FY23 Y/Y NON-GAAP FY24 FY23 Y/Y

Orders $44,089 $41,637 6% Organic revenues $34,771 $32,630 7%

Total revenues $34,935 $33,239 5% Adjusted EBITDA $2,035 $807 $1,228

Net income (loss) $1,559 $(474) $2,033 Adjusted EBITDA margin 5.8% 2.4% 340 bps

Net income (loss) margin 4.5% (1.4)% 590 bps Adjusted organic

6.2% 3.3% 290 bps

EBITDA margin

Cash from (used for)

$2,583 $1,186 $1,397

operating activities Free cash flow $1,701 $442 $1,259

Backlog* $119,023 $115,598 3% Adjusted backlog* $119,023 $111,514 7%

* Backlog defined as remaining performance obligation (RPO). Adjusted backlog is a non-GAAP financial measure and is defined as Total RPO (GAAP) of $115.6B and

$119.0B, less RPO related to the portion of Steam Power nuclear activities sold to Electricité de France S.A. of $4.1B and zero, as of December 31, 2023 and 2024,

respectively. The sale was completed in the second quarter of 2024. We believe that Adjusted backlog provides management and investors with a meaningful

measure of our performance that improves the period-to-period comparability of RPO by excluding the effect of this sale.

UNPRECEDENTED ERA OF Alongside this demand, a transition is DELIVERING OUR INDUSTRY’S

ELECTRIC GROWTH AHEAD emerging. Last year, for the first time in TRANSFORMATION

history, the capital expenditure of global

Energy is a defining issue in an To create and deliver the electrons that

utilities was larger than that of the oil

increasingly complex global economic the world desperately needs, business

and gas industry. Behind this statistic

landscape. It fuels all forms of human and government must work together to

is a clear shift, the world is increasingly

progress, enabling what is possible across adopt practical and ambitious plans to

being powered with electrons rather

society at an individual and country level. meet this moment.

than by molecules.

From the comfort of our daily lives to

It starts with the fundamental principle

the strength of a nation’s economy, the I believe that this growth in demand for

that every electron is precious. We need

availability and affordability of energy electricity is the catalyst for the next

to get the most out of our electric power

has a direct impact on outcomes. multi-generational growth opportunity.

system by growing and transforming

We are in the early stages of the next

After decades of modest growth in today’s aging existing infrastructure.

supercycle: global investment into the

developed economies, electricity has Progress starts with improving what you

electric power system. This investment

become a dominant force for prosperity, have. This is a major near-term opportunity;

will have a similar impact on global

and increasingly an enabler of national building new infrastructure takes time

economies as prior investment supercycles

security. The energy system is shifting and electrons are already scarce.

such as globalization in the 1980s and

towards electricity while the growth of

1990s, and the internet and software in Take North America. GE Vernova has

AI is tied to both the health and security

the 2000s and 2010s. approximately 700 of our 7F gas turbines

of our economies as well as national

installed where technological upgrades

interests. At the same time, the demands With our unique scope, portfolio and scale,

can be performed to add an incremental

on our energy system have increased; GE Vernova is well-positioned to lead the

14 gigawatts to the system. With nuclear,

aging infrastructure will require next era of energy.

currently 65 units are running our technology

significant investment and innovation.

to which we can add 3 gigawatts of uprates

Electricity demand growth in the United to produce incremental capacity—in

States, which has been largely flat for addition to generating another 2 gigawatts

two decades, is now predicted to grow by restarting decommissioned sites. In

50 percent over the next 20 years. our hydroelectric business, we have more

Drivers include local manufacturing, than 150 hydro plants with more than one

industrialization, data centers, and gigawatt of planned upgrades this decade

electric vehicles. This is true almost and substantially more planned as we look

everywhere, with countries around the ahead to the 2030s. In Wind, we have

world accelerating their demand for 10,500 wind turbines that are candidates for

incremental power. repowering which can add an incremental

GE Vernova’s purpose statement ~2.6 gigawatts of electricity to the grid.

2 | 2024 GE Vernova Annual Report

The opportunity ahead of us spans far

beyond a single continent. The electric

power industry can take advantage of

existing upgrade opportunities around

the world, even as we take the steps

necessary to build out new capacity.

When I visited Japan in January 2025,

I met with customers who have restarted

two of 20 nuclear power plants with

GE Vernova technology. Over time, we

expect more plants will be restarted. In

Europe, GE Vernova has a fleet of 1,000

gas turbines where upgrade options can

save fuel and lower emissions by improving

efficiency and delivering better operating

conditions. We have approximately 200 9F

gas turbines across the continent which

can be upgraded to deliver an 8 percent Technicians working on a gas turbine in Greenville, South Carolina

increase in output.

This opportunity is not limited to generation The entire industry will require intense

assets: the power transmission and levels of investment over time to develop 2024 HIGHLIGHTS

distribution networks offer similar levels of this new capacity. The world must

gains by upgrading existing infrastructure. prioritize the allocation of capital into 25%

~

Investments into the grid, the backbone products and programs that can scale

of the electric power system, will double industrially, with local manufacturing

through 2030 and overtake worldwide close to the market where it is needed of the world’s electricity

renewable power investment, according for maximum cost efficiency. We’ve seen generated using our technology

to the International Energy Agency. This is this done successfully in other markets

our sweet spot, more than 95 percent of that have demonstrated the ability to

7K

power transmission utilities in the world mass produce technology at scale. ~

are equipped with components from

The confluence of growing demand for

GE Vernova’s Electrification segment. power around the globe will test supply gas turbines installed

For example, deploying our Flexible AC

chains everywhere. If our industry can

Transmission System solution (FACTS),

maximize the existing installed base

57K

offers grid operators the ability to enhance while investing in new capacity at scale, ~

the controllability, stability, and power

we will meet demand requirements,

transfer of existing long-distance AC

deliver reductions in carbon intensity, and wind turbines installed

transmission lines rather than building

innovate the new technologies required

costly new ones.

for the future.

$1B

In parallel, we need serious, global ~

With both efforts, we can improve the

industrialization of power generation

trajectory of emissions and help address

technology which prioritizes scalable,

climate change. In 2024, we released invested in Research & Development

“workhorse” power-dense products.

our first Sustainability Report, detailing

These products need to be mass produced

our efforts that brought an additional

and be able to generate the maximum $35B

29 gigawatts of generation online and ~

power density with minimal footprint.

helped avoid approximately 20 million

Grid equipment and energy storage

metric tons of CO emissions in the first

systems are following a similar trend 2 in revenue

full year of operation through adding

with enhanced standardized solutions

technologies with a lower carbon intensity.

to connect power generation sources,

$119B

to transfer electricity at a higher scale to

multiple points, and to be converted or

stored to meet the increasing demands

backlog*

of load centers.

2024 GE Vernova Annual Report | 3

Segment Performance in 2024

Dollars in millions

POWER

Providing dispatchable, flexible electricity generation

solutions and focused on reducing carbon intensity.

Y/Y

FY24 FY23 Y/Y ORGANIC-a)

Orders $21,758 $17,426 25% 28%

Revenues $18,127 $17,436 4% 7%

EBITDA $2,268 $1,722 $546 $450

EBITDA margin 12.5% 9.9% 260 bps 180 bps

Backlog* $73,351 $72,974 1%

Adjusted backlog* $73,351 $68,890 6%

Expert craft professionals inspect a 7F gas turbine at GE Vernova’s

Houston Learning Center in Texas

WIND

An industry leader with technology to help deliver a

decarbonized future.

Y/Y

FY24 FY23 Y/Y ORGANIC-a)

Orders $7,088 $11,422 (38)% (38)%

Revenues $9,701 $9,826 (1)% (1)%

EBITDA $(588) $(1,033) $445 $385

EBITDA margin (6.1)% (10.5)% 440 bps 380 bps

Backlog* $22,682 $26,949 (16)%

A technician installing hardware on a wind turbine bedplate in

Schenectady, New York

ELECTRIFICATION Developing and orchestrating a modernized

and digitized grid to meet the demands

of today and tomorrow.

Y/Y

FY24 FY23 Y/Y ORGANIC-a)

Orders $15,689 $13,203 19% 19%

Revenues $7,550 $6,378 18% 18%

EBITDA $679 $234 $445 $437

EBITDA margin 9.0% 3.7% 530 bps 520 bps

Backlog* $23,453 $16,342 44%

A technician working on Voltage-Sourced Converter valves in

Stafford, United Kingdom

(a – Organic revenues, EBITDA, and EBITDA margin are non-GAAP financial measures.

* Backlog defined as remaining performance obligation (RPO). Adjusted Power backlog is a non-GAAP

financial measure and is defined as Power RPO (GAAP) of $73.0B and $73.4B, less RPO related to the

portion of Steam Power nuclear activities sold to Electricité de France S.A. of $4.1B and zero, as of

December 31, 2023 and 2024, respectively. The sale was completed in the second quarter of 2024. We

believe that Adjusted Power backlog provides management and investors with a meaningful measure of our

4 | 2024 GE Vernova Annual Report performance that improves the period-to-period comparability of RPO by excluding the effect of this sale.

A generator specialist training at GE Vernova’s Houston High voltage test lab at the power transformer factory in A technician performs maintenance on a GE Vernova

Learning Center Stafford, United Kingdom onshore wind turbine in New Mexico

POSITIONING TO SERVE AND WIN We will also look outside the company for Europe, and on the floor at our largest

As we begin 2025, we have five clear ideas and cultural accelerants, including gas turbine repair shop outside the

priorities for GE Vernova. within the energy transition startup U.S. Our first Board meeting of 2025

community, academia, and government. was held in Greenville, South Carolina,

1. Continue to accelerate For startups, acquisitions are only a part where our full Board spent substantial

GE Vernova culture of the story. There are countless innovative time on the shop floor with our teams

ideas, outstanding leaders, and startups understanding the steps we are taking to

The journey to deliver GE Vernova’s

that don’t have the customer reach or position GE Vernova to serve the growing

spin-off began in early 2022 after being

capability to industrialize their ideas. markets in front of us. To successfully

announced in November 2021. Prior

GE Vernova can help with scale and meet the demand for our solutions,

to the formation of GE Vernova, these

different partnership models, all while we must always be learning, listening,

businesses operated with different

propelling our own culture forward. improving…always at genba.

cultures. Since 2022, we’ve made real

progress in areas like underwriting

2. Scale for significant growth in 3. Deliver the Wind turnaround

discipline, cash linearity focus, and

Gas Power and Grid Solutions

establishing the overall governance Our strategy with Onshore Wind is

needed for a new public company. But Lean fundamentals are at the heart of deliberate and focused on preparing

substantial opportunity to continue to our approach to growth: we only invest for the coming ‘inflection point.’ There

go from “good to great” is in front of us. once we’ve eliminated waste from our is important work happening with the

existing processes. To reduce complexity, existing installed base: GE Vernova’s

You will hear from me in every letter

we will nurture our supply chains closer 57,000 wind turbines are generating

about our true north: SQDC. That’s:

to our key opportunities. For example, power across the world today, with

Safety, Quality, Delivery, Cost—always

in January 2025, GE Vernova announced approximately 35,000 of those units

in that order. We run the company every

a nearly $600 million investment into our in the U.S. To be ready for this growth

day with that prioritization. Increasing

U.S. facilities over two years that will create inflection, we will continue to improve our

affordability also matters greatly in this

approximately 1,500 new factory and existing fleet’s performance, as we invest

supercycle: the companies that prosper

engineering jobs primarily in our Gas Power into more cranes and crews to inject

will be the ones who leverage lean to

business, but also expanding capabilities technological improvements to ensure

deliver industrial products at scale. Each

in Grid, Nuclear, Wind, and our Advanced we have the safest and best performing

of our businesses is on a journey and as

Research Center. Investments like these fleet in the world.

part of our operating rhythm we will make

will position the company to capture

substantial progress across all areas of We are making good progress with

substantial U.S. growth by strengthening

SQDC in 2025. our Wind supply chain where we

the durability of our local supply chain.

are committed to deploying proven,

Our team is improving each day both as

Our Board and management team will workhorse products. Last year, in

individuals and together. Of our top 105

consistently be spending time at genba— Schenectady, New York, we produced

leaders, approximately 30 percent are

or the point of impact. This means walking more than 150 wind turbine nacelles

new to the company since we announced

the factory floor and learning from after starting up operations in 2023.

the spin. I’m excited about the team we

colleagues to identify areas of continuous In Pensacola, Florida, we are using lean

have, while continuing to look to improve

improvement. Our leadership team at to enable higher output from our existing

everyday with both investments into our

GE Vernova understands that this is factory footprint. We also continue to

existing team while attracting talent from

non-negotiable. Personally, I spent the make progress with our AI-enabled

the outside that can make us better. We

first few days of 2025 in Singapore to digital blade inspection certification

will invest in our teams and in our leaders,

meet with critical partners supporting to ensure blades that leave our factory

continually working to improve every day.

the delivery of grid-related projects in are right the first time.

2024 GE Vernova Annual Report | 5

Nuclear professionals train in Wilmington, North Carolina GE Vernova’s GridOS® orchestration software An employee discusses SQDC at the Gas Power Global

Repairs and Services Center in Singapore

Offshore Wind experienced a tough scheduling issues. At GE Vernova, we 5. Sustain our discipline with how

year in 2024, but we will be better for are focused on delivering a product that we manage cash and cost structure

it as we go into 2025. Today, we have is repeatable, using existing combustion

Financial strength is an essential

wind turbines producing power in both and fuel chain infrastructure with our

competitive differentiator as the world shifts

the Atlantic and the North Sea. We are BWRX-300 small modular reaction that

from molecules to electrons. For companies,

focused on executing on the existing can be scaled in the early 2030s. Our first

this includes a strong balance sheet and

backlog in the safest, highest-quality 300-megawatt plant is scheduled to be

lean cost structure. We are also focused

way and looking for smart opportunities commissioned in Canada with Ontario

on the linearity of our cash performance,

to expedite completion of this backlog Power Generation in 2029. 2025 is an

seeking to deliver solid positive free cash

for our customers and our financials. important year for us to further harden

flow every quarter in 2025. In addition,

the supply chain for this build-out, while

I’m proud of our Wind team, and confident we will continue to look for opportunities

finalizing the engineering to scale globally.

that our investments into the installed to simplify our portfolio and create capital

Our significant, multi-decade experience

base and supply chain will pay dividends to both reinvest into core businesses and

with these technologies gives us the

when better market conditions develop return to our shareholders.

ability to innovate for a safer, more

for the industry.

cost-effective future for nuclear energy. As I previously mentioned, in December,

4. Position Nuclear and Electrification we initiated an active share repurchase

The world’s grid is fragile. Our customers

Software to play a meaningful role program. We also declared our first

battle increased complexity with variable

dividend, and plan to return at least one

Great companies deliver on the ‘now’ power generation sources, as well as the

third of cash generation to shareholders

while incubating technology and challenges posed by extreme weather

over time through the combination of

business models for the future. Nuclear conditions, maintenance, and cybersecurity

share repurchases and dividends. On

and Electrification Software are two for an aging system. Our GridOS® software

cost, we’ve committed to a substantial

businesses entering a very important platform is playing a meaningful and

reduction in our G&A costs—$600 million

year ahead. growing role in our customers’ ability to

between 2024 to 2028—to help fund

navigate the growing complexity that is

Nuclear capacity in the world needs to increased R&D for our future. I do not

a daily reality for them. In 2025, we plan

triple from now through 2050 to reach expect us to stop there.

to deliver GridOS® at scale while adding

zero-carbon objectives, but the nuclear

more features.

industry has consistently faced cost and

“W e approach our role with an enormous

sense of responsibility, knowing the world

relies on us for the equipment, services,

and software to produce and distribute

the electricity it needs.”

6 | 2024 GE Vernova Annual Report

THE BEST IS TO COME

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

Steve Angel Jesus Malave

Chairman, Linde plc Chief Financial Officer,

2025 will be an exciting year for GE Vernova and our industry.

Lockheed Martin

There are abundant opportunities for our company to help Scott Strazik

meet the surging global demand for electric power with our Chief Executive Officer, Martina Hund-Mejean

GE Vernova Former Chief Financial Officer,

equipment, services, and software. MasterCard Worldwide

Nicholas K. Akins

We will partner with our customers and the wider energy Former Executive Chair, Paula Rosput Reynolds

ecosystem to shape and deliver the future energy system, American Electric Power President and Chief Executive

Officer, PreferWest LLC

one that provides abundant, resilient and sustainable Arnold W. Donald

energy for everyone. It will be a year of global effort. Former President and Chief Kim K.W. Rucker

Former Executive Vice President,

As an American company, we are uniquely positioned to Executive Officer, Carnival

General Counsel and Secretary,

win in the U.S., but the energy expansion is truly global, Matthew Harris Andeavor (formerly Tesoro Corp.)

and we remain focused on all markets where we operate. Founding Partner, Global

Infrastructure Partners

We are also committed to improving the communities where

we operate: last year, we launched the GE Vernova Foundation

with a priority of building the skilled workforce needed to

drive the energy transition forward, while supporting stronger EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM

and more resilient global communities. The GE Vernova team

Scott L. Strazik* Hon. Roger Martella

is ambitious, passionate, and committed to our mission to

Chief Executive Officer Chief Corporate Officer,

electrify and decarbonize the world. Chief Sustainability Officer

Vic Abate*

Leading GE Vernova and serving our stakeholders is an Chief Executive Officer, Kenneth Parks*

Wind Chief Financial Officer

immense privilege. Thank you for your investment in our

company and for your continued support. I am incredibly Steven Baert* Philippe Piron

optimistic that the best is yet to come. Chief People Officer Chief Executive Officer,

Electrification Systems

Kristin Carvell

Chief Communications Officer Scott Reese

Chief Executive Officer,

Daniel Garceau Electrification Software

Chief Supply Chain Officer

Jessica Uhl*

Rachel Gonzalez* President

General Counsel

SCOTT STRAZIK Maví Zingoni*

CEO, GE Vernova Pablo Koziner Chief Executive Officer,

Chief Commercial Officer Power

February 6, 2025

*Executive Officers

GE Vernova’s leadership team at our Founders Meeting in Greenville, South Carolina

2024 GE Vernova Annual Report | 7

2024 GE Vernova Annual Report | 5

2024

FORM 10-K

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

☑ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024

☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission file number 001-41966

GE Vernova Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware 92-2646542

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

58 Charles Street, Cambridge, MA 02141

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code) (617) 674-7555

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered

Common stock, par value $0.01 per share GEV New York Stock Exchange

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☐ No ☑

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☑

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange

Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has

been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☑ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to

Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was

required to submit such files). Yes ☑ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting

company or an emerging growth company. See definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and

"emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer ☐ Accelerated filer ☐

Non-accelerated filer ☑ Smaller reporting company ☐

Emerging growth company ☐

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying

with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of

its internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public

accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☐

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant

included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based

compensation received by any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ☐ No ☑

The aggregate market value of the outstanding common equity of the registrant not held by affiliates as of the last business day of the

registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 28, 2024) was approximately $47.1 billion. There were 275,900,754 shares

of common stock with a par value of $0.01 outstanding at January 15, 2025.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the definitive proxy statement relating to the registrant's 2025 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed pursuant to Regulation

14A within 120 days after the end of the registrant’s fiscal year ended December 31, 2024, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this

Annual Report on Form 10-K to the extent described therein.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page

Forward-Looking Statements 3

Part I 4

Item 1. Business 4

Item 1A. Risk Factors 10

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 31

Item 1C. Cybersecurity 31

Item 2. Properties 32

Item 3. Legal Proceedings 33

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 33

Part II 34

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 34

Item 6. [Reserved] 34

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 34

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 47

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 49

Auditor's Report 49

Consolidated and Combined Statement of Income (Loss) 51

Consolidated and Combined Statement of Financial Position 52

Consolidated and Combined Statement of Cash Flows 53

Consolidated and Combined Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss) 54

Consolidated and Combined Statement of Changes in Equity 55

Note 1 Organization and Basis of Presentation 56

Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 57

Note 3 Dispositions and Businesses Held for Sale 61

Note 4 Current and Long-Term Receivables 62

Note 5 Inventories, Including Deferred Inventory Costs 62

Note 6 Property, Plant, and Equipment 63

Note 7 Leases 63

Note 8 Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Other Intangible Assets 64

Note 9 Contract and Other Deferred Assets & Contract Liabilities and Deferred Income 64

Note 10 Current and All Other Assets 65

Note 11 Equity Method Investments 66

Note 12 Accounts Payable and Equipment Project Payables 67

Note 13 Postretirement Benefit Plans 67

Note 14 Current and All Other Liabilities 72

Note 15 Income Taxes 72

Note 16 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (AOCI) and Common Stock 75

Note 17 Share-Based Compensation 76

Note 18 Earnings Per Share Information 77

Note 19 Other Income (Expense) – Net 77

Note 20 Financial Instruments 77

Note 21 Variable Interest Entities (VIEs) 80

Note 22 Commitments, Guarantees, Product Warranties, and Other Loss Contingencies 80

Note 23 Restructuring Charges and Separation Costs 81

Note 24 Related Parties 82

Note 25 Segment and Geographical Information 83

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 86

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 86

Item 9B. Other Information 86

Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 86

Part III 87

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 87

Item 11. Executive Compensation 87

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 87

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 87

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 87

Part IV 88

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 88

Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 89

Signatures 90

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. This annual report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private

Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and other securities laws that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements may include

words such as “believe”, “expect”, “guidance”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “plan”, “estimate”, “will”, “may”, and negatives or derivatives of these or

similar expressions. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements about the benefits GE Vernova Inc. (the

Company, GE Vernova, our, we, or us) expects from our lean operating model; our expectations regarding the energy transition; the

demand for our products and services; our expectations of future increased business, revenues, and operating results; our ability to

innovate and anticipate and address customer demands; our ability to increase production capacity, efficiencies, and quality; our

underwriting and risk management; the experiences we believe we are gaining across our Haliade-X backlog related to installation

timelines and related remediation plans; benefits we expect to receive from the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA); current and future

customer orders and projects; our actual and planned investments, including in research and development, capital expenditures, joint

ventures and other collaborations with third parties; our ability to meet our sustainability goals and targets; levels of global infrastructure

spending; government policies that further or limit the global energy transition; our expected cash generation; our capital allocation

framework, including share repurchases and dividends; our restructuring programs and strategies to reduce operational costs; our ability to

novate or assign credit support provided by General Electric Company; disputes, litigation, arbitration, and governmental proceedings

involving us; the sufficiency and expected uses of our cash, liquidity, and financing arrangements; and our credit ratings.

Forward-looking statements reflect our current expectations, are based on judgments and assumptions, are inherently uncertain and are

subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors, which could cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially

from current expectations. Some of the risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those

expressed or implied by forward-looking statements include the following:

• Our ability to successfully execute our lean operating model;

• Our ability to innovate and successfully identify and meet customer demands and needs;

• Our ability to successfully compete;

• Significant disruptions in our supply chain, including the high cost or unavailability of raw materials, components, and products

essential to our business;

• Significant disruptions to our manufacturing and production facilities and distribution networks;

• Changes in government policies and priorities that reduce funding and demand for energy equipment and services;

• Shifts in demand, market expectations, and other dynamics related to energy, electrification, decarbonization, and sustainability;

• Global economic trends, competition, and geopolitical risks, including conflicts, trade policies, and other constraints on economic

activity;

• Product quality issues or product or safety failures related to our complex and specialized products, solutions, and services;

• Our ability to obtain required permits, licenses, and registrations;

• Our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel;

• Our ability to develop, deploy, and protect our intellectual property rights;

• Our capital allocation plans, including the timing and amount of any dividends, share repurchases, acquisitions, organic

investments, and other priorities;

• Our ability to successfully identify, complete, integrate, and obtain benefits from any acquisitions, joint ventures and other

investments;

• The price, availability, and trading volumes of our common stock;

• Downgrades of our credit ratings or ratings outlooks;

• The amount and timing of our cash flows and earnings;

• Our ability to meet our sustainability goals;

• The impact from cybersecurity or data security incidents;

• Changes in law, regulation, or policy that may affect our businesses and projects, or impose additional costs;

• Natural disasters, weather conditions and events, public health events, or other emergencies;

• Tax law and policy changes;

• Adverse outcomes in legal, regulatory, and administrative proceedings, actions, and disputes; and

• Other changes in macroeconomic and market conditions and volatility.

These or other uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking

statements, and these and other factors are more fully discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in Item 1A. "Risk

Factors" and Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," as may be updated from

time to time in our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings and as posted on our website at www.gevernova.com/investors/fls.

We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise our forward-looking statements except as may be required by law or regulation.

2024 FORM 10-K 3

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

INTRODUCTION. GE Vernova Inc. (the Company, GE Vernova, our, we, or us) is a global leader in the electric power industry, with

products and services that generate, transfer, orchestrate, convert, and store electricity. We design, manufacture, deliver, and service

technologies to create a more reliable, secure, and sustainable electric power system, enabling electrification and decarbonization,

underpinning the progress and prosperity of the communities we serve. We are a purpose-built company, positioned with a unique scope

and scale of solutions to help accelerate the energy transition, while servicing and growing our installed base and strengthening our own

profitability and stockholder returns. We have a strong history of innovation, which is a key strength enabling us to meet our customers’

needs.

The breadth of our portfolio also enables us to provide an extensive range of technologies and integrated solutions to help advance our

customers’ energy and sustainability goals. Our installed base generates approximately 25% of the world’s electricity. We build, modernize,

and service power systems to help our customers electrify their operations and economies, meet power demand growth, improve system

reliability and resiliency, and navigate the energy transition through limiting and reducing emissions. The portfolio of equipment and

services that we deliver is diversified across technology types and is adaptable based on electric power market conditions and demand.

GE Vernova Inc. is a Delaware corporation with corporate headquarters in Cambridge, Massachusetts. On April 2, 2024, General Electric

Company (GE), which now operates as GE Aerospace, completed the previously announced spin-off (the Spin-Off) of GE Vernova. In

connection with the Spin-Off, GE distributed all of the shares of our common stock to its stockholders and we became an independent

company. See Note 1 in the Notes to the consolidated and combined financial statements for further information regarding the Spin-Off.

COMPANY STRATEGY. GE Vernova is positioned as an industry leader to fulfill the growing demand for electrical power, while driving

the energy transition forward. Our focus is on supplying our customers with products and services necessary to deliver reliable, affordable,

and sustainable electricity. We expect significant growth in demand for the offerings we provide to the electric power industry.

Our company strategy is focused on:

• Delivering on global sustainability, by developing, providing, and servicing technologies that enable electrification and

decarbonization.

• Maintaining and enhancing strong relationships with many of the leading and largest utilities, developers, governments, and

electricity users.

• Servicing the existing installed base and delivering new technologies and processes, which improve customer outcomes while

driving increased profitability and cash flow.

• Improving margins and lowering risk through better underwriting.

• Streamlining our product portfolio to focus on core workhorse products, which will improve both cost and quality going forward.

• Using Lean to improve our cost structure and productivity levels across our business and corporate functions.

• Innovating and investing, along with third parties, in new offerings and technologies that will help customers electrify and

decarbonize the world.

• Allocating capital as a whole and within our various businesses – focused on generating cash flow to enable attractive stockholder

returns, with a commitment to return at least 1/3 of our free cash flow* to our stockholders.

SUSTAINABILITY. As a company whose technology base helps generate approximately 25% of the world’s electricity, our integration of

sustainability into our core business strategy and culture reflects our strategic imperative to electrify and decarbonize the world and to play

a crucial role in the energy transition. Our sustainability framework is guided by our commitment to help the energy sector address the

energy trilemma of reliability, affordability, and sustainability.

To operationalize this commitment, we have built the sustainability governance framework of “the Control Room.” The Control Room is led

by our Chief Sustainability Officer, who supervises a cross-functional, global team, and chairs our Sustainability Council. Further, we have a

Safety and Sustainability Committee of the Board of Directors, which guides and oversees our sustainability goals, impacts, risks, and

efforts. Our operational efforts are aligned with our business strategy, the priorities of our stakeholders, our commitments, and our aim to

deliver innovative technologies to create a more sustainable electric power system.

The four pillars of our sustainability framework: Electrify, Decarbonize, Conserve, and Thrive:

• Electrify: Catalyze access to more secure, sustainable, reliable, and affordable electricity, while helping to drive global

economic development. We seek to add power generation and grid capacity to strengthen current electricity infrastructure and

provide critical redundancy, support electrification in underserved regions, and encourage economic development.

• Decarbonize: Invent, deploy, and service technology to help decarbonize and electrify the world. We seek to advance both

the near-term impact by improving the trajectory on carbon intensity and the long-term impact by deploying products that are

increasingly capable of lower carbon emissions once supporting infrastructure is deployed at scale.

• Conserve: Innovate more while using less. We are working to reduce both our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions

and have set a goal to achieve carbon neutrality for our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 2030. We also support the transition

to a more circular economy and recognize the importance of critical raw materials and nature in our mission. We are working to

track 90% of our top products as part of our circularity framework by 2030, including principles such as eco-design.

• Thrive: Advance safe, responsible, and inclusive working conditions in our operations and across our value chain. We

are committed to prioritizing safety, building and fostering an inclusive workplace globally and in the communities in which we

operate, promoting a culture of compliance and ethics, and advancing human rights across our supply chain.

*Non-GAAP Financial Measure

2024 FORM 10-K 4

The global shift towards a variety of energy sources, evolving and increased environmental regulations and requirements, and climate

change effects, present both challenges and opportunities that may impact our business. See Item 1A. "Risk Factors" for further information

about these risks.

COMPETITION. We believe GE Vernova's businesses' ability to supply the electric power industry with a broad array of advanced

technologies for an intelligent, sustainable power system that help customers accelerate the energy transition is a key differentiator among

various of our competitors. Due to increasing demand exceeding available capacity for products and services that supply the electrical

power industry, we face growing competition from emerging threats. The continuing ability to reduce cycle times and ensure available

capacity is expected to allow us to remain competitive as demand for our products and services grows significantly. In addition, continued

investment in our products and services and emerging technologies is necessary for us to successfully compete and deliver economic

value and performance to our customers through efficiency, reliability, and affordability.

Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. We compete based on product performance, quality, branding, service and/or price

across the industries and geographies served. Various companies compete with us across single or multiple products and services.

Key Power segment competitors include Siemens Energy, Mitsubishi Power, Westinghouse, Framatome, and Rolls-Royce.

Key Wind segment competitors include Vestas, Siemens-Gamesa, and Nordex.

Key Electrification segment competitors include Hitachi Energy, Siemens Energy, Siemens, Schneider Electric, Mitsubishi Electric, and

ABB.

SEGMENTS. We report three business segments that are aligned with the nature of equipment and services they provide, specifically

Power, Wind, and Electrification.

Power. Our Power segment serves power generation, industrial, government, and other customers worldwide with products and services

related to energy production. Our products and technologies harness resources such as natural gas, oil, diesel, water, and nuclear to

produce electric power and include gas and steam turbines, full balance of plant, upgrade, and service solutions.

Gas Power - offers a wide spectrum of heavy-duty and aeroderivative g

[Content truncated due to length...]