For all of you

Contents

A letter from Andrew McMahon, Chairman & CEO 3

Inspiring well-being 5

Culture 13

Corporate impact 17

Finance & investments 25

Leadership 31

A message from

the Chairman & CEO

Every day at Guardian, we bring to life our purpose to inspire well-being®.

We provide financial protection and confidence for you and your loved ones,

support your wellness journey, and work with you to invest and build your

wealth to help provide certainty in an uncertain world. It’s a great privilege

and opportunity to be there for all of you.

We are making significant progress in advancing our strategic initiatives

to enable us to champion your well-being. In The 2024 Guardian Annual,

I’m excited to share how we are delivering against our goals and positioning

the company to create additional value in 2025 and beyond.

Financial strength and stability

Guardian remains one of the strongest and most highly rated insurance

companies in the US with an Aa1 (High Quality) rating by Moody’s, an A++

(Superior) rating by A.M. Best Company, and an AA+ (Very Strong) rating from

Standard & Poor’s.1 Our sound underwriting, responsible capital management,

and robust investment returns give you the assurance we’ll fulfill our

commitments for generations to come.

In 2024, we achieved $2.4 billion in operating income and approved a record $1.6

billion dividend payment for 2025 to our participating whole life policyholders.2

We also unlocked value by managing capital efficiently, including the expansion of

our partnership with HPS Investment Partners (HPS). Our combined investment

experience and access to market-leading investment strategies create additional

value in our portfolio for our policyholders and help drive long-term growth.

We are champions of well-being for our customers, colleagues,

and communities

As a mutual company, our focus is on you — not shareholders. The Guardian

Annual highlights how we champion well-being for your mind, body, and

wallet®. You’ll meet our colleagues, partners, and financial professionals,

including Ashvin Chheda who was motivated to become a financial advisor

following his father’s diagnosis with an aggressive cancer. Chheda collaborates

with his clients to achieve financial independence so they can help reduce

unnecessary stress and focus on what matters most in their lives.

3 The Guardian Annual, 2024

Our mutuality fosters trust, loyalty, and shared value, guiding every decision

we make. Our long-term relationships with our customers make us uniquely

positioned to support their well-being and encourage healthy behaviors to

help them live healthier, happier lives.

We’ve transformed the wellness journey and continue to innovate to support

life’s pivotal moments. In 2024, Guardian was one of the first carriers to build

caregiver and cancer support within our long-term disability insurance and

include tobacco cessation services in our dental insurance.

Pursuing excellence

I want to thank our colleagues, partners, and financial professionals for

continuing to pursue excellence. Their dedication has earned Guardian

recognition as one of America’s Best Large Employers by Forbes for the

fourth year in a row3 and outstanding customer service acknowledgements

from J.D. Power4 and DALBAR.5

To our customers, your trust in Guardian continues to inspire us to provide

lasting value and protection for you and your loved ones. Thank you for being

a part of this journey with us.

Sincerely,

Andrew J. McMahon

Chairman & Chief Executive Officer

4

Guardian is here for all of

you. The part of you aiming

to get in more steps. The

part of you striving to push

your paycheck further. The

part of you that takes time

to contemplate, stretch, and

breathe. And we’re not only

here for all who need us, we’re

here for all who need you.

The parents you support, the

children you care for, and the

friends who became family.

When you need a helping

hand, you can count on

Guardian to deliver on the

promise we made to you.

To all of you.

We’re proud to share stories

that shine a light on our

customers, colleagues, and

Inspiring

communities. They are the

truest demonstrations of how

Guardian inspires well-being.

well-being

In 2012, PGA Championship golfer Rob Labritz’s wife

Kerry woke up one morning, looked across the bed at her

husband, and said, “Rob, you look really skinny.” Despite

eating enormous meals, he discovered that he weighed

50 pounds less than he did the previous month.

Rob went to the doctor, and in the days he waited to

receive his blood work results, became convinced that

Supporting professional he was dying. “I thought, well, okay, you got to play in three majors, and you’ve

got Guardian life insurance so your family’s going to be taken care of. I guess

golfer Rob Labritz

it’s been a pretty good life.”i

during a difficult time

Rob and his financial professional set up a foundation of financial protection

Over a decade previously, Rob met Guardian Financial Professional Nicholas

Liapunovii and they embarked on a relationship to set up a foundation of financial

protection for Rob and his family, arming him with life and disability insurance,

as well as a will.6 The business relationship turned into a long-lasting friendship.

“It was a scary time, waiting for those test results,” says Nick. “But we talked

about how no matter what happens, he felt at ease financially because of the

planning we did. That planning stands the test of time. Although things change in

everybody’s lives, that foundation of financial protection stays with you forever.”

“If I was in this situation without ever having met Nick,” says Rob, “I would have

been so worried.”

Rob’s life insurance positively impacted his mental health in a time of stress

Rob received a diagnosis of Graves’ disease, an autoimmune disorder that leads

to an overactive thyroid. Thankfully, it was not as dire as he expected. He had

surgery to remove his thyroid and is looking forward to a healthy future.

Rob says this experience made him a big believer in the impact of life insurance

on one’s mental wellness during difficult times. “My family’s the most important

thing to me. Guardian made me feel confident that they would be protected.

Ten years later, here I am, a healthy guy with another child. You can’t beat that.”

Meet

i Paid testimonial. Personal views of this client and their experience do

not suggest future results.

ii Nicholas Liapunov is a Registered Representative and Financial

Rob

Advisor of Park Avenue Securities LLC (PAS). Securities products and

advisory services offered through PAS, member FINRA, SIPC. Financial

Representative of The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America®

(Guardian), New York, NY. PAS is a wholly owned subsidiary of Guardian.

Strategies for Wealth is not an affiliate or subsidiary of PAS or Guardian.

CA Insurance License #4107286.

When Laria Breland was growing up, she experienced

housing insecurity. “I’m the youngest of seven,” she says.

“My mom has a huge heart, and she did the best she could,

but there were a lot of us. It was an uphill battle.”

Laria was searching for work with meaning, and wanted

to help families like hers, so she began working at PATH,

a nonprofit homeless services provider.

“I think it’s a fundamental right to have a place where

Long-term customers you can lock the door and feel safe and secure,” says Jennifer Hark Dietz,

CEO of PATH. “A lot of our employees have lived experience of homelessness.

like PATH put their trust

Like Laria, they’re able to deeply relate to the people they’re working with.”

in Guardian, allowing us

to grow together PATH works to provide the same kind of holistic approach to well-being for their

own 1,000 employees as they do for the people they serve. Guardian provides

benefits that care not only for their physical health, but also their financial and

emotional health.

As PATH has grown, so has their Guardian benefit offerings

PATH and Guardian have worked together for over a decade. “Our relationship

with Guardian has grown as our employee needs have evolved,” says Jennifer.

“Our benefits provide our employees with the opportunity to feel like they

have contingencies in place so their financial wellness can be taken care of.”

With a full-time role, Laria now has access to benefits she never had as a kid

including dental, vision, disability, accident, critical illness, hospital indemnity,

and life insurance benefits. Her self-care includes going to therapy, utilizing

her EAP, painting, and decorating and organizing her home.

“Guardian has really helped to embed a wellness perspective and to prioritize

self-care into our culture as an organization,” says Jennifer.

PATH employees like Laria are taking care of the well-being of other people.

Guardian helps take care of the well-being of Laria.

Meet

PATH

7

We know how important

your family is to you

Maternity benefits to help you Disability leave helps you

build and care for your family care for your loved ones

During my pregnancy, my nausea and anxiety Sometimes unexpected emergencies come

were unbearable. Thankfully, through my up, and you have to miss work to take care of

benefits with Guardian, I could get mental loved ones. When I absolutely needed time

health resources to help me feel grounded. off with no financial worries, Guardian sure

And once my daughter was born, managing came to the rescue. They gave me a sense of

my short-term disability benefits was simple. stability and one less thing to worry about.

Throughout all of my interactions with

Tony

Guardian, during and after my pregnancy,

Guardian paid family and medical leave customer

I was always treated with care and empathy.

Miranda

Guardian Short Term Disability and Spring Health customer

Inspiring well-being 8

Supporting you

through life’s

pivotal moments

Guardian introduces a range of wellness resources

to help care for you and those you love

We’re on a mission to take care of all of you. So, we

embarked on a mission to support the well-being of

our Group Benefits customers and their families with

a suite of wellness partnerships to offer personalized

benefits at any stage of life.

9 The Guardian Annual, 2024

Easing the confusion of caregiving with We’re with you on your cancer journey

logistical support

Rather than feeling alone when facing a cancer diagnosis,

No matter how much we love those we care for, we want to help our members feel informed and

caregiving can be complicated — and a logistical supported on this journey. We partnered with Osara

equation that seems impossible to crack. So, Guardian Health to include cancer support services as part of

partnered with Wellthy to offer personalized caregiving Group Long Term Disability, offering access to a unique

support to our members and our colleagues. Wellthy six-to-12-week program to help members focus on their

helps create a plan and takes action to support needs holistic well-being throughout their treatment.8

like managing a health diagnosis, moving a loved one

into a living facility, finding a reliable child care service,

“Guardian’s level of care made all the difference during

and coordinating daily tasks like paying bills and filling

prescriptions.7 a really difficult time. The Osara program gave me hope,

showing me there’s light at the end of the tunnel.”

Osara Health participant

“Their guidance not only drastically changed the

outcome for my father, but it allowed me to make

informed decisions that were in my family’s interest.”

Guardian colleague and Wellthy program participant

Quitting tobacco and nicotine doesn’t have to be Eliminating barriers to well-being with access to

done alone mental health resources

Nearly a third of working Americans use tobacco Family is everything. But each family’s mental health

products, even though many want to quit.9 That’s needs are unique, and the struggles of one may impact

why Guardian has partnered with Pelago, a digital all. That’s why Guardian’s mental wellness benefits

substance use management platform, to offer through Spring Health expanded even further in 2024 to

personalized resources included in Guardian dental offer participating employees and their family members

plans. This offering is available to Guardian dental quick access to counseling and other specialized health

members and their family (ages 15+). Pelago provides resources when they need it most.11

access to a qualified quit coach, a clinical assessment,

and digital tracking tools to help members quit

smoking, vaping, and using other tobacco/nicotine

products — for good.10

Inspiring well-being 10

Taking care of those

who take care of others

Preserving Peter's lifestyle and protecting

his income with disability insurance

Peter, a cardiovascular surgeon, worked with his financial

professional for 15 years, planning for his future and putting

safety bumpers in place, just in case. After years of leaning

over his patients to perform surgery, he developed chronic

pain in his back, requiring a surgery of his own — a fusion

of his vertebrae. No longer able to practice, he called in his

disability claim. After a career of taking care of his surgical

patients, it was Guardian’s turn to care for Peter.i

I never expected to have to My working relationships

use my disability insurance. start with physicians when

But then again, no one they’re in training. Then, as

ever does. The disability their careers evolve, I make

insurance policies that I have sure that their protection

with Guardian have helped grows with them. Peter’s story

me to survive the hardest is exactly why I do the work

years in my career and that I do. When someone’s

prevented my family from ability to earn an income

losing everything. I wouldn’t suffers, my clients know that

still be standing without the work we’ve done together

the help of my financial will afford them not only

professional, who made financial backup, but a choice

sure I had some of the on how they move forward

best coverage possible. with their lives.

Peter Jeffrey Benowitz

Guardian disability Guardian Financial Professionalii

insurance customer

i Personal views of this client and their experience do not suggest future results. No compensation was provided.

ii Jeffrey Benowitz is a Registered Representative and Financial Advisor of Park Avenue Securities LLC (PAS). Securities products and advisory

services offered through PAS, member FINRA, SIPC. Financial Representative of The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America® (Guardian),

New York, NY. PAS is a wholly owned subsidiary of Guardian. Certified Financial Services LLC is not an affiliate or subsidiary of PAS or Guardian.

CA Insurance License #0C34575, AR Insurance License #1988898.

Guardian says “yes”

to those who need us

After being turned away from three other

major carriers due to his pre-existing

condition, Chris found a home with Guardian

When Chris went in search of life insurance coverage,

he said, “I thought I should be honest with myself, so I

Googled ‘insurance that allows HIV patients.’” Chris,

who is currently living with nondetectable HIV, was able

to secure coverage from Guardian.12

He is preparing now, while he’s young and healthy, to have

his funeral affairs covered so that he doesn’t leave debt

behind for his sister. “At a funeral, someone has to pay for

the makeup, the tuxedo, and the headstone,” Chris says.

“Having a final expenses policy in place makes me happy

that my family will not have to pay out of pocket.”

Chris thanks Guardian on behalf of people like himself who

have pre-existing conditions. “People are often forced to

crowdsource to fund their own funerals. They have to put

the burden on those they love. It doesn’t mean they didn’t

try. But when people get denied life insurance coverage

over and over, they give up. Guardian gives us opportunity.”

We give our

best to our

Guardian has been recognized DALBAR recognized Life,

customers by J.D. Power for providing Disability, Annuity, and PAS

"An Outstanding Customer Service Contact Center teams for

Experience" for Phone support — superior customer service.

seven years in a row.

J.D. Power award: https://www.guardianlife.com/news/release/jdpower-recognizes-guardian-for-outstanding-customer-service

12

DALBAR award: https://www.guardianlife.com/news/release/guardian-teams-recognized-by-dalbar

At Guardian, culture means

that everyone in our

workplace feels a sense

of belonging, like they’re

exactly where they should

be, because we honor their

perspectives and points of

view. We are a company that

will always honor our values,

and that means that we live

our culture of doing what’s

right — both personally

and professionally. Each

colleague adds a distinct

contribution, and each team’s

accomplishment benefits

all of us.

Culture

Mahenthiran Kulandhaivelu had been working as an

Operations Associate in Group Benefits Billing at Guardian

India13 when he was involved in a critical, disabling accident.

It resulted in the loss of his legs.

His life turned upside down. He moved home with his

family, went on disability, and struggled with depression —

but he was also incredibly resilient. It took over a year, but

he learned how to walk again.

A Guardian colleague Mahenthiran’s colleagues at Guardian India knew that he would need time to

recover. His manager, Manish Nagrani, told him, “Don’t worry about your job.

makes a confident

Guardian will be here when you’re ready. Focus on getting better.”

comeback after a

life-changing accident “I could take that time to heal,” says Mahenthiran, “because my job was secure.

I didn’t have to worry about my finances, and that was at least one thing that

my family and I didn’t have to struggle with.”

Support from his colleagues gave Mahenthiran the confidence to return to

work as a top performer

Phone calls and letters from his colleagues gave Mahenthiran confidence.

He knew he had a support network to return to. Since his return to the office,

Guardian India has been flexible with his work arrangements whenever he

needs it.

“You would think that after a life-changing incident like this, you would see

a drop in the quality of work,” says Manish. “But that never happened with

Mahenthiran. In fact, it was the opposite. He is a top performer who is always

looking for opportunities to help other teams.”

After his accident, Mahenthiran feels that his confidence has continued to

increase. “I am not doing less,” he says. “I am doing more. I learned that when

life gets hard, Guardian will never leave you behind. I feel like I can do anything.”

Meet

Mahenthiran

14

Financial wellness can grant you better balance

Ashvin Chheda was an engineer and a prolific inventor

living in Dallas when his dad became ill with an aggressive

cancer. At the time, he had a completely hands-off

approach to his personal finances. But he quickly had to

learn about his father’s savings and investments. “It really

opened my eyes, and I pivoted,” he says. “I needed to learn

A financial professional how to build my own financial wellness, so I started that journey as a client.

I began working with a Guardian financial professional.”

finds a personal connection

to inspire his work As an eager student, Ashvin was soon peppering his financial professional with

questions and ideas. “He told me I asked a lot of good questions … but too many

of them,” Ashvin laughs. “He told me I should think about doing his job myself.”

So, Ashvin became licensed. He started working with his family and friends on

nights and weekends. He was energized by imparting holistic advice.

“People tend to complicate financial planning,” says Ashvin. “When you boil

it down, it’s really very simple. We’re all working to pay our bills and save

money. It takes some discipline to save and invest, but we’re on a journey

toward retirement. Things can derail your journey, so you have to make sure

to protect your capital. These aren’t difficult decisions. I try to keep things as

straightforward as possible.”

I have clients from preschool teachers to CEOs, and my

philosophy around finances is always the same: Financial

wellness creates balance. If you save well, invest wisely, and

make decisions that protect your family, it reduces a lot of

stress. It puts you on a journey to financial independence.

It can give you your purpose. It allows you to enjoy today

and tomorrow. You’re on your way to overall well-being.

It means you can live a happy life.

Ashvin Chheda

Meet

Guardian Financial Professional

Ashvin

15

Better together in Bethlehem

The Guardian office in Bethlehem, PA, takes workplace culture to the next level.

The Bethlehem Colleague Connection Committee (CCC) believes that being

in the office together can offer a greater sense of connection and belonging

among our colleagues.

Committed to building a fulfilling office life and focusing on the wellness

of colleagues, the CCC hosts events including football tailgates and time

with therapy dogs, but their marquee event is the Annual Summer Sendoff,

a colleague-produced outdoor salute to summer with music, food, and

entertainment.

We’re nurturing a culture of activity and of energy.

We want every colleague to feel like an insider.

Haley Maruschak

Process Improvement Analyst

Co-lead of Bethlehem Colleague Connection Committee

Our workplace culture inspires

the well-being of our colleagues

Forbes award: https://www.guardianlife.com/news/release/guardian-recognized-by-forbes-as-one-of-americas-best-large-employers

Indian CSR award: https://www.facebook.com/story.php?story_fbid=611362517953473&id=100072391903640&_rdr

Markets Choice award: https://www.marketsmedia.com/2024-u-s-women-in-finance-award-winners-announced/

16

Great Place to Work award: https://www.guardianlife.com/news/release/india-honors-guardian-india-best-places-to-work

Guardian’s Corporate

Impact activities aim to uplift

communities, offer support

to those who need it, and

enhance the well-being of

others and our planet. But it’s

bigger than being a “good”

organization, it’s our purpose

in action. It’s where social

good and business priorities

meet. We believe that time

helping others and creating

meaningful change is time

well spent. And we know that

when we help our customers,

communities, and colleagues

to thrive, we fulfill our purpose.

Corporate

impact

After a high school cross country race, Maria Velat

experienced a randomly caused inflammation of the

spinal cord called transverse myelitis. While some people

recover fully, Maria was left paralyzed.

Maria’s role as an advocate for para athletes began shortly

after her injury. She led the charge to create a proposal

to petition the state of Michigan’s athletic association

to allow para athletes to compete and score points at

the regional level for high school teams. After four years

Maria Velat becomes an of advocacy, the adaptive category within high school track and field was

established. Maria is still hard at work advocating for full inclusion of adaptive

advocate for para athletes

athletes, including the ability to compete and score points at state finals.

Maria says that people need to know that it’s possible to still be an athlete when

you’re disabled. For her, it’s not only about being able to participate — it’s about

competition and the drive to win.

This drive has led her to excel at her sport. Maria competed in the first ever

wheelchair track collegiate championships at the Drake Relays, recognized

by the NCAA. Guardian helped fund her participation.

Guardian and ASAP work to create equity for all athletes

As one of the leading providers of disability insurance, Guardian is proud to

partner with the University of Michigan to create the Adaptive Student Athlete

Program (ASAP). This national program helps significantly expand access

to competitive opportunities in para track and field, wheelchair tennis, and

wheelchair basketball for collegiate student athletes with disabilities. ASAP

proudly paves the way for those student athletes to increase participation

and receive recognition for their extraordinary achievements.

“As a disabled person, you don’t see a lot of yourself in the media,” says Maria.

“It’s really hard to find your place in this world. So being able to give that

community and that common experience to young disabled people is what

I live for. I just hope to continue this for my entire life.”

Meet

Maria

Corporate impact 18

A healthy smile can mean a whole new beginning

“There is a profound need for oral health care in America,”

says Lynda Ricketson, CEO of Dental Lifeline Network.

Many adults can’t afford good dental care; it’s either

too expensive, or they don’t qualify for dental insurance.

Dental Lifeline Network (DLN) is a national, nonprofit

organization that collaborates care for people who are

Improving the oral desperately in need of help with their oral health. Before receiving services

from DLN, patients are often in physical pain and socially isolated. They don’t

health and self-esteem

smile often, have low self-esteem, and grapple with increased anxiety.14

of those in need

“After treatment,” says Lynda, “they’re able to actively pursue jobs, reconnect

with family, and generally feel more confident reconnecting with life again.”

We’re passionate about well-being, and that translates to good oral care and

healthy smiles — and the confidence that brings

As a major donor to DLN since 2018, Guardian helps to fund complimentary,

comprehensive dental treatments for some of the most vulnerable populations.

These treatments come from local dentists, including many in the Guardian

network. Our long-standing philanthropic grant has given more than 45,000

patients another chance at good oral health.

“There are many people who need life-saving care such as dialysis, cancer

treatments, or surgeries, and they can’t get medical clearance because

of cavities or gum disease, which are bacterial infections,” says Lynda.

“That needs to be restored or repaired in order to receive life-saving care.”

We want these patients to feel like they’re not alone. Dental Lifeline Network

and Guardian have their backs.

Meet

Dental Lifeline Network

19 The Guardian Annual, 2024

Narrowing the wealth gap with The American College

We believe in the power of growing your own wealth

in order to boldly pursue your dreams and confidently

protect your families. But how do we reach those who

aren’t Guardian customers, those who typically don’t fit

the profile of a person who “amasses wealth?” Closing the

wealth gap is an important pursuit, one Guardian takes on

hand-in-hand with The American College.

Guardian supports Guardian’s sponsorship of The American College Center for Economic

Empowerment and Equality® helps to further financial education for historically

upward mobility

underserved groups. Our support contributed to over 150 education

and wealth building

scholarships and helped to publish a 3,500-person study delving into Black

for all underserved

women’s perspectives on money and how the financial industry can truly connect

communities with them. It also helped to form a financial education accreditation program.

It’s inspiring to have a great sponsor like Guardian in our

work to build programs that uplift underserved communities.

Their commitment has enriched our collective efforts to

expand economic opportunity and financial confidence

for more Americans.

George Nichols III

President and CEO of The American College of Financial Services

Meet

The American College

Corporate impact 20

Financial wellness course sets high schoolers

on the right path toward healthy financial habits

My students were able to

Guardian partnered with EVERFI® to deliver a digital

develop a strong mindset and

financial education course, available at no cost to all

core values around managing

teachers nationwide, to introduce financial health to

the next generation their money. Discussing its

impact on their mental health

Newly-passed financial literacy bills require American high

school students to complete a personal finance course as and their relationships is

a requirement to graduate. This is mandated in 26 states, particularly powerful.

affecting millions of students. Our Minding Your Money:

Skills for Life™ curriculum, built in partnership with EVERFI,

Participating teacher

can fulfill this mandate at no charge to the school district.

Florida

Meet

EVERFI

21

Helping our communities

is part of our everyday work

At Guardian, we believe in doing the right thing. That means making the most

of the goodwill that flourishes within our company culture. We’re proud of the

thousands of volunteers who committed to a worthwhile year of service.

2,800+ 14,500+ 3,900+ 5,600+

colleague volunteers hours donated nonprofit matching gift

organizations participants

benefited

Corporate impact 22

We’re committed to

responsibly managing

sustainability and

climate-related risks

We operate with an aim to conserve resources, reduce

waste, and protect the environment at our facilities.15

Notable highlights:

• We continue to enhance how we track our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas

(GHG) emissions data.16

• In support of our climate risk efforts, we performed our annual sustainability

assessments of select value chain suppliers.

• We continued recycling efforts at our offices, including programs for

battery recycling and filtered water bottle stations to minimize plastic waste.

Our programs resulted in recycling 44 tons of electronic waste. We donated

15.5 tons of office furniture and equipment to Texas-based nonprofits.

• Our Office Move & Decommissioning program diverted 273 tons and 99.2%

of materials from landfills around the country in 2024.

Guardian’s support has made a tangible

difference in our operations, allowing us to

better equip our staff and volunteers as we

work toward our mission of providing care and

resources to the chronic homeless community.

Hope Restored Missions

Plano, TX

23 The Guardian Annual, 2024

Greenhouse gas

We created a baseline inventory in 2019, and in 2023 we began to update our

GHG emission accounting platform for improved tracking.17

Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Scope 1+2

2024 1,059 5,635 6,694 tCO2e

2023 914 6,674 7,588 tCO2e

2022 969 6,808 7,777 tCO2e

Source: Greenly GHG Calculations

How we integrate sustainability

into our investments

Our Investments team is committed to acknowledging and considering

sustainability factors in our analysis of potential investments. We believe that

these factors help identify companies that create and preserve long-term

value and superior risk-adjusted returns. We define responsible investment

as the integration of material sustainability factors into traditional investment

processes which support our pursuit of optimal portfolios.

Adding a sustainability lens to risk and opportunity decisions by combining

our detailed company knowledge with third-party data brings insight into the

decision-making process.

Corporate impact 24

Guardian continues to build

on its legacy of financial

strength, delivering

consistent growth through a

strong business strategy and

disciplined risk management.

Our commitment to value

creation, prudent expense

management, and sound

capital allocation ensures

we remain well-positioned

to navigate evolving market

conditions. As one of the

most highly rated insurers in

the US, we are poised to build

on this momentum to support

all of you — especially your

financial wellness.

Finance &

investments

Guardian’s financial strength remains a cornerstone of our

success. Our strong operating performance and enhanced asset

liability management leveraging our new Guardian Enginuity™:

Next-gen risk optimization platform are driving above trend

growth and further reinforcing Guardian’s financial strength.

We are proud to continue delivering growth and protection for

our policyholders, helping us meet our promises today and for

the future.

Kevin Molloy

Chief Financial Officer

Achieved record operating Achieved strong premium growth

income of $2.4 billion of 5%, with record sales in our

Group Benefits and Individual

Markets businesses

Delivered a record 2024 Proudly maintained our standing

dividend of $1.6 billion to our as one of the most highly rated

participating policyholders, insurance companies, with

an increase of 14% from 202318 $11.7 billion of capital

Financial

successes of 2024

Finance & investments 26

A year of strength in financial performance

We surpassed an operating income of more than $2.4 billion, an all-time

record for Guardian, and grew capital to $11.7 billion. This was driven by robust

investment returns, sound underwriting, and prudent expense management.

Premiums, fees, Operating income, Benefits paid

and equivalents before taxes and dividends to policyholders

$ in billions $ in billions $ in billions

2024 $13.4 2024 $2.4 2024 $7.4

2023 $12.8 2023 $2.1 2023 $6.6

2022 $12.0 2022 $1.7 2022 $7.0

2021 $11.0 2021 $1.9 2021 $7.4

2020 $10.4 2020 $1.7 2020 $6.7

Policyholder dividends declared Total adjusted capital (TAC) Assets under administration

$ in billions $ in billions $ in billions

2024 $1.6 2024 $11.7 2024 $171.5

2023 $1.4 2023 $11.4 2023 $162.3

2022 $1.3 2022 $11.0 2022 $154.5

2021 $1.1 2021 $10.7 2021 $159.6

2020 $1.1 2020 $9.5 2020 $136.4

Ratings

Ratings agencies are responsible for gauging the financial strength of

companies so that investors, policyholders, or partners can work with the

facts. Exemplary ratings indicate that a company can honor its financial

commitments and pay its claims.

Guardian continued its track record in 2024 of receiving high ratings across

the board.

Aa1 A++ AA+

Stable Stable Stable

High Quality Superior Very Strong

2 of 21 1 of 15 2 of 20

Moody’s Investors Service A.M. Best Company Standard & Poor’s

The ratings of The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America® (Guardian) quoted in this report are as of December 31, 2024 and are subject to

change. The ratings earned by Guardian do not apply to the investments issued by The Guardian Insurance & Annuity Company, Inc. (GIAC) or offered

through Park Avenue Securities LLC (PAS). Rankings refer to Guardian’s standing within the range of possible ratings offered by each agency.

27 The Guardian Annual, 2024

Embracing innovation

to understand risk

Guardian developed a next generation Asset Liability Management (ALM)

platform — Guardian Enginuity™: Next-gen risk optimization — leveraging

innovative technology to better understand risks and enhance returns for

our policyholders. We have already seen initial benefits through our growing

retirement income business including our popular fixed and income annuities.

Finance & investments 28

Year-to-year performance

The following condensed financial statements of The Guardian Life Insurance

Company of America have been derived from audited statutory financial

statements, which are available upon request.

Results are for The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America only (not consolidated)

As of December 31 (in millions) For the year ended December 31 (in millions)

Admitted assets 2024 2023 Revenues 2024 2023

Bonds $52,866 $52,093 Premiums, annuity considerations, $10,516 $10,115

and fund deposits

Unaffiliated common 297 107

and preferred stocks Net investment income 3,435 2,997

Investments in affiliates 1,073 1,095 Other income 552 359

Mortgage loans 7,462 7,030 Total revenue $14,503 $13,471

Private and real estate equity 4,875 4,389

Benefits and expenses 2024 2023

Policy loans 6,069 5,106

Benefit payments to $6,232 $5,401

Receivable for securities, other 4,176 2,391

policyholders and beneficiaries

invested assets, and derivatives

Net increase to policy benefit reserves 2,686 2,966

Cash and short-term investments 2,748 1,191

Commissions and operating expenses 3,367 3,151

Total invested assets 79,566 73,402

Total benefits and expenses $12,285 $11,518

Premiums deferred and uncollected 1,226 1,213

Reinsurance recoverable 4,001 3,777 Gain from operations before

from affiliate policyholder dividends and taxes $2,218 $1,953

Other assets 2,032 1,874 Policyholder dividends (1,566) (1,382)

Total admitted assets $86,825 $80,266 Gain from operations before 652 571

taxes and realized capital losses

Liabilities and surplus 2024 2023 Income tax expense (114) (90)

Reserves for policy benefits $60,661 $57,975 Net realized capital losses (357) (119)

Policyholder dividends payable 10,102 8,233 Net income $181 $362

and other contract liabilities

Interest maintenance reserve 0 227

General expenses due or accrued 1,184 1,150

Asset valuation reserve 1,567 1,492

Other liabilities 4,023 2,117

Total liabilities 77,537 71,194

Policyholders’ surplus 7,786 7,571

Surplus notes 1,502 1,501

Total liabilities and surplus $86,825 $80,266

Certain amounts from 2023 have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.

Other legal information:

Financial information concerning Guardian as of December 31, 2024, on a statutory basis: Admitted Assets = $86.8 Billion;

Liabilities = $77.5 Billion (including $60.7 Billion of Reserves); and Surplus = $9.3 Billion.

Financial information concerning GIAC as of December 31, 2024, on a statutory basis: Admitted Assets = $10.6 Billion;

Liabilities = $10.0 Billion (including $3.5 Billion of Reserves); and Capital and Surplus = $0.6 Billion.

Financial information for Berkshire Life Insurance Company of America as of December 31, 2024, on a statutory basis:

Admitted Assets = $5.5 Billion; Liabilities $5.3 Billion (including $1.1 Billion in Reserves); and Capital and Surplus = $0.2 Billion.

29 The Guardian Annual, 2024

Asset class allocation — December 31, 2024

Statement value $ in millions % of invested assets

Bondsi 52,866 66.4%

Commercial mortgagesii 8,213 10.3%

Policy loans 6,069 7.6%

Private & real estate equity 4,144 5.2%

Affiliates & subsidiaries 2,082 2.6%

Cash, short-term & other invested assets 6,192 7.8%

Total invested assetsiii 79,566 100.0%

i Total bonds consist of 94% Investment Grade and 6% Below Investment Grade public and

private debt but excludes surplus note debentures classified as Schedule BA invested assets,

commercial mortgages, and preferred stock.

ii Includes commercial mortgage loans and mortgage debt funds.

iii Presentation of Invested Assets is a condensed view which will not align to the Audited

Statutory Financial Statements.

Greater access, stronger returns

Guardian is enhancing the value we deliver to our policyholders by evolving

our general account portfolio through an expanded partnership with HPS

Investment Partners. This collaboration enables us to leverage HPS’ experience

across a broad range of credit assets classes, strengthening our ability

to generate superior risk-adjusted returns. With this new and innovative

partnership, we are unlocking new opportunities to drive long-term growth

and financial well-being for those we serve.

Finance & investments 30

Andrew J. McMahon Kermitt Brooks Erin Culek Michael Ferik

Chairman & Chief Chief Legal Officer Chief Strategy & Head of Individual Markets

Executive Officer Operating Officer

Stacey Hoin Nick Liolis Jonathan Mayhew Kevin Molloy

Chief Human Resources Officer Chief Investment Officer Head of Group Benefits Chief Financial Officer

At Guardian, our leadership team is busy caring

for all of us — not only our colleagues, but also

for you, our customers. They work tirelessly to

maintain a positive and innovative work culture,

while continuing to demonstrate Guardian’s

unwavering commitment to mutuality and to

providing assurance and stability.

Steve Rullo Wendy Wahl

“Embracing empathy and compassion isn’t just

Chief Digital & Chief Marketing &

Technology Officer Communications Officer the next leadership trend. It represents a deeply

transformative and necessary shift in the way

we show up and connect in the workplace.”

Stacey Hoin

Chief Human Resources Officer

Leadership

Board of

Directors

Christopher T. Jenny* Eileen K. Murray*

Guardian Director since 2017 Guardian Director since 2020

Director, CBRE Group, Inc. Director, HSBC Holdings plc

Director, Mobile Virtual Player Director, Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc.

Director, PLT4M Chair, Invisible Urban Charging, Inc.

Director, FAIRWAYiQ Former Chair, FINRA

Director, Affina, Inc. Former Co-Chief Executive Officer,

John J. Brennan* Bridgewater Associates, LP

Chairman and Chief Executive

Guardian Director since 2011

Officer, Jennus Innovation Former Controller, Treasurer, Global Head of

Chairman Emeritus, Vanguard Technology and Operations, and Management

Former President & Senior Partner,

Member, Board of Trustees, University of Notre Dame The Parthenon Group Committee member, Morgan Stanley

Chairman, Vanguard Charitable Former Partner, Bain & Company Former Head of Global Technology, Operations

Endowment Program and Product Control, Credit Suisse First Boston

Director, American Express Company

Director, Rockefeller Capital Management

Eric L. Kelly*

Gary A. Norcross*

Guardian Director since 2024

Guardian Director since 2017

Board Member, Sabre Corporation

Former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, FIS

Deborah L. Duncan* Chairman and CEO, Overland Tandberg Corporation

Guardian Director since 2006 Member of the Dean’s Executive Advisory

Chairman, Bridge 2 Technologies Board of the Sam M. Walton School of

Member of the Board of Directors and Board Member and Chair of Nomination Business, University of Arkansas

Chair of the Audit Committee, and Former

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial and Governance Committee, San Jose Director, YMCA of Florida’s First Coast

State University Tower Foundation

Officer, Fremont Group, L.L.C.

Former Chairman, Economic Advisory

Member of Investment Advisory

Board, San Francisco Federal Reserve

Committee, BF Global, L.P.

Former Chairman of Sphere3D Corporation

Director and Secretary, X2X Media Group

Former Chairman, Silicon Valley

Strategic Advisor, Global Glimpse

Management Partners Corporation

Former Chair of the Board of

Trustees, Smith College Former Board Member, Executive Office of Vivek Sankaran*

President Obama Council of Advisors on Science,

Guardian Director since 2018

Technology, and Advanced Manufacturing

Partnership Steering Committee Chief Executive Officer, Albertsons Companies, Inc.

Director, National Retail Federation

Director, Safe Water Network

Former Chief Executive Officer,

Frito-Lay North America

William C. Freda* Former Partner, McKinsey & Company

Guardian Director since 2014

Director, Hamilton Insurance Group Andrew J. McMahon

Guardian Director since 2020

Director, State Street Corporation

Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Guardian

Retired Senior Partner and Vice Chairman, Deloitte

Director, Partnership for New York City

Former Chair, Global Insurance Committee,

Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited Trustee, Fairfield University

Former Managing Partner, U.S. Financial Board Member, American Council of Life Insurers Lauren Tyler*

Services Industry Practice, Deloitte LLP Guardian Director since 2024

Member, Department of Financial Services

Former Director, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited State Insurance Advisory Board Former Executive Vice President and Global

Former Trustee, Bentley University Board Member, Evadata Head of Human Resources, JPMorgan

Chase Asset & Wealth Management

Former Chairman, American Institute Former Board Member, Alliance Bernstein

of Certified Public Accountants’ Board Member, World Wildlife Fund

Former Board Member, AXA Financial

Mutual Life Insurance Task Force Independent Director, Cencora

Former Board Member, Phoenix

Board Member, Yale Cancer Center

Life Insurance Companies

Former Independent Director,

Former Board Member, Nassau Re

Alleghany Corporation

As of March 31, 2025

Leadership 32

*Independent Director

Information & disclaimers

1 The ratings of The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America® (Guardian) quoted in this report are as of December 31, 2024 and are subject

to change. The ratings earned by Guardian do not apply to the investments issued by The Guardian Insurance & Annuity Company, Inc. (GIAC)

or offered through Park Avenue Securities LLC (PAS). Rankings refer to Guardian’s standing within the range of possible ratings offered by each

agency.

2 Dividends are not guaranteed. They are declared annually by Guardian’s Board of Directors.

3 https://www.guardianlife.com/news/release/guardian-recognized-by-forbes-as-one-of-americas-best-large-employers

4 https://www.guardianlife.com/news/release/jdpower-recognizes-guardian-for-outstanding-customer-service

5 https://www.guardianlife.com/news/release/guardian-teams-recognized-by-dalbar

6 Guardian, its subsidiaries, agents, and employees do not provide tax, legal or accounting advice. Consult your tax, legal, or accounting professional

regarding your individual situation.

7 Wellthy, Inc. (“Wellthy”) is a vendor to The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America (“Guardian”). Wellthy and Guardian are not affiliated

entities. Wellthy provides a care coordinator to integrate separately retained caregiver resources (e.g., senior care, childcare, etc.) for the benefit of

a member or their permitted dependents. (“Services”). Guardian does not control or provide any part of the Services and does not bear any liability

for their provision. This informational resource is not a contract and is for illustrative purposes only. Only the policy contains applicable terms.

Guardian and Wellthy reserve the right to discontinue Services at any time without notice. Services may not be available in all states. ©2024 The

Guardian Life Insurance Company of America.

8 Osara Health (“Osara”) is a vendor to The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America (“Guardian”). Osara and Guardian are not affiliated entities.

Osara provides a personalized support program through certified health coaches to address cancer management issues for the benefit of a

member (“Services”). Services are designed for members 18 years+ of age, diagnosed with cancer, regardless of cancer type, stage, or prognosis.

Services are not meant to provide medical advice/care. Medical advice/care should be sought from your independent healthcare provider(s).

Guardian does not control or provide any part of the Services and does not bear any liability for their provision. This informational resource is not

a contract and is for illustrative purposes only. Only the policy contains applicable terms. Guardian and Osara reserve the right to discontinue

Services at any time without notice. Services may not be available in all states. Guardian® is a registered trademark of The Guardian Life Insurance

Company of America, New York, NY and is used with permission. ©2024 The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America. All rights reserved.

9 Source: Habit to Harm: Tobacco usage and its impact on workforce well-being, Guardian’s 13th Annual Workplace Benefits Study.

10 Tobacco Cessation benefits discussed herein are provided by Pelago (Pelago Benefits). Pelago is not a medical care provider. The Guardian Life

Insurance Company of America (Guardian) does not control or provide any part of the Pelago Benefits and does not bear any liability for their

provision. This informational resource is not a contract and is for illustrative purposes only. Only the policy contains applicable terms. Pelago

Benefits may not be available in all states. Guardian and Pelago reserve the right to discontinue the Pelago Benefits at any time without notice.

Guardian® is a registered trademark of The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America, New York, NY and is used with permission. ©2024 The

Guardian Life Insurance Company of America. All rights reserved.

11 Mental wellness benefits discussed herein are provided by Spring Care, Inc., d/b/a Spring Health (“Spring Health”), 60 Madison Avenue, Floor 2,

New York, NY 10010. Spring Health is not an insurance benefit. Insured products are offered by The Guardian Life Insurance Company, New York,

NY (“Guardian”) which has a financial interest in Spring Health.

12 Personal views of this client and their experience do not suggest future results.

13 Guardian India Operations Private Limited.

14 An Ounce of Prevention: The link between preventive dental care, better oral health, and overall wellness, Guardian’s 13th Annual Workplace

Benefits Study, 2024.

15 Guardian currently has a real estate portfolio of 27 corporate locations. To align with our evolving Workplace Strategy and our desire to maintain

a presence in key markets, Guardian is reducing its office count to approximately 16 locations. As part of the reduction process, Guardian has

subleased all or part of nine locations. Guardian will continue to monitor and optimize its physical footprint and the use of resources within its

office locations.

16 The Guardian Life Insurance Company of America divested the ReedGroup business in [December] 2022, which triggered a re-baselining of the

GHG Inventory consistent with best practices contained within the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The GHG emissions associated with ReedGroup

were removed from the 2019 baseline and subsequent reporting years to reflect this change in Guardian’s subsidiary businesses.

17 We continue to optimize our operations and minimize the use of resources to reduce our environmental impact. The calculation of Scope 1 and

Scope 2 emissions was based on a combination o

[Content truncated due to length...]