UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT

OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023

or

☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE

ACT OF 1934

Commission file number: 1-6686

THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware 13-1024020

(State or other jurisdiction of (I.R.S. Employer

incorporation or organization) Identification No.)

909 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10022

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

(212)704-1200

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class Trading Symbol(s) Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share IPG The New York Stock Exchange

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the

preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T

(§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such files). Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth

company. See definition of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,” and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer ☒ Accelerated filer ☐

Non-accelerated filer ☐ Smaller reporting company ☐

Emerging growth company ☐

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised

financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial

reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the

correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☒

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the

registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes ☐ No ☒

As of June 30, 2023, the aggregate market value of the shares of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $14.9 billion. The number of

shares of the registrant’s common stock outstanding as of February 15, 2024 was 378,725,237.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The following sections of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 23, 2024 are incorporated by reference in Part III: “Election of

Directors,” “Director Selection Process,” “Code of Conduct,” “Committees of the Board of Directors,” “Audit Committee Report,” “Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports,”

“Executive Compensation,” “Non-Management Director Compensation,” “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Compensation and Leadership Talent Committee Report,”

“Outstanding Shares and Ownership of Common Stock,” “Transactions with Related Persons,” “Director Independence” and “Appointment of Registered Public Accounting

Firm.”

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page

PART I

Item 1. Business 2

Item 1A. Risk Factors 10

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 16

Item 1C. Cybersecurity 16

Item 2. Properties 17

Item 3. Legal Proceedings 18

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 18

PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 19

Item 6. [Reserved]

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 20

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 46

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 48

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 98

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 98

Item 9B. Other Information 98

Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 98

PART III

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 99

Item 11. Executive Compensation 99

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 99

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 99

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 99

PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 100

Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 100

STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING DISCLOSURE

This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Statements in this report that are not historical facts, including statements

regarding goals, intentions, and expectations as to future plans, trends, events, or future results of operations or financial position, constitute forward-looking

statements. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “forecast,”

“plan,” “intend,” “could,” “would,” “should,” “estimate,” “will likely result” or comparable terminology are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause our actual results

and outcomes to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements.

Actual results and outcomes could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others:

• the effects of a challenging economy on the demand for our advertising and marketing services, on our clients’ financial condition and on our

business or financial condition;

• our ability to attract new clients and retain existing clients;

• our ability to retain and attract key employees;

• risks associated with the effects of global, national and regional economic and political conditions, including counterparty risks and fluctuations in

interest rates, inflation rates and currency exchange rates;

• the economic or business impact of military or political conflict in key markets;

• the impacts on our business of any pandemics, epidemics, disease outbreaks or other public health crises;

• risks associated with assumptions we make in connection with our critical accounting estimates, including changes in assumptions associated with

any effects of a challenging economy;

• potential adverse effects if we are required to recognize impairment charges or other adverse accounting-related developments;

• developments from changes in the regulatory and legal environment for advertising and marketing services companies around the world, including

laws and regulations related to data protection and consumer privacy; and

• the impact on our operations of general or directed cybersecurity events.

Investors should carefully consider the foregoing factors and the other risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, including those outlined under

Item 1A, Risk Factors, in this annual report on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on

forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any of them in light of

new information, future events, or otherwise.

1

Table of Contents

PART I

Item 1. Business

The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. ("Interpublic," the "Company," "IPG," "we," "us" or "our") was incorporated in Delaware in September 1930

under the name of McCann-Erickson Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by

Harrison K. McCann. The Company has operated under the Interpublic name since January 1961.

About Us

We provide marketing, communications and business transformation services that help marketers and brands succeed in today’s digital economy.

Combining the power of creativity and technology, our approximately 57,400 employees and operations span all major world markets. Our companies

specialize in insights, data, media, creative and production, digital commerce, healthcare marketing and communications. We create customized marketing

solutions for clients that range in scale from large global marketers to regional and local clients. Comprehensive global services are critical to effectively serve

our multinational and local clients in markets throughout the world as they seek to build brands, increase sales of their products and services, and gain market

share.

The work we produce for our clients is specific to their unique needs. Our solutions vary from project-based activity to long-term, fully integrated

campaigns. With operations in over 100 countries, we can operate in a single region or deliver global integrated programs.

IPG provides our agencies and clients with centralized resources, including unique assets in data, creativity and production, technology and artificial

intelligence, which together form a foundation that enables our company to deliver ideas that drive growth for marketers and engage consumers at every

touchpoint. Based in New York City, our corporate center sets company-wide financial objectives and corporate strategy, establishes financial management

and operational controls, guides personnel policy, directs collaborative programs, conducts investor relations, manages environmental, social and governance

("ESG") programs, provides enterprise risk management and oversees mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we provide certain centralized functional services

that enable operational efficiencies, including accounting and finance, research and development, technology, executive compensation management and

recruitment assistance, employee benefits, market research, internal audit, legal services, real estate expertise and travel services.

Our Brands

IPG is a client‐centric company, and we seek to be essential partners to our clients in their own transformation journeys, providing them with seamless

access to our best-in-class expertise across our entire portfolio. Our operations support the strategic position that marketers have access to the best and most

appropriate Company resources to drive business success, and may access these capabilities from across the IPG network in an agile model called Open

Architecture®. Consistent with this strategic principle, IPG’s agency brands are grouped into reportable segments based on the agencies’ primary capabilities.

• Media, Data & Engagement Solutions provides innovative capabilities and scale in global media and communications services, digital services and

products, advertising and marketing technology, digital commerce, data management and analytics, strategic consulting, and digital brand experience.

Our brands in this segment include IPG Mediabrands, UM, Initiative, KINESSO, Acxiom, Huge, MRM and R/GA.

• Integrated Advertising & Creativity Led Solutions provides advertising, corporate and brand identity services, and strategic consulting. The IPG

brands include our leading global networks FCB, IPG Health, McCann Worldgroup, and MullenLowe Group as well as our domestic integrated

agencies Campbell Ewald, Carmichael Lynch, Deutsch LA, The Martin Agency and others. These agencies have the leading role of ideation and the

execution of creative ideas across complex integrated campaigns that are foundational to client brand identities.

• Specialized Communications & Experiential Solutions provides best‐in‐class global public relations and communications services, live events, sports

and entertainment marketing, and strategic consulting. IPG brands include IPG DXTRA Health, The Weber Shandwick Collective, Golin, Jack

Morton, Momentum and Octagon. These agencies create engaging experiences that allow consumers to build emotional connections and lasting

relationships with brands.

All our brands leverage IPG’s unique assets in data and technology, creativity and production, media, consulting, technology and artificial intelligence to

connect brand marketing and performance marketing, driving accelerated growth for our clients.

2

Table of Contents

We list approximately 80 of our companies on our website under the "Our Companies" section, with descriptions, capabilities and office locations for

each. To learn more about our broad range of capabilities, visit our website at www.interpublic.com. Information on our website is not part of this report.

Market Strategy

We operate in a media, consumer and technology ecosystem that continues to evolve at a rapid pace. To help our clients win in a data-led and digital first

world, we have made and continue to make investments in strategic areas including digital commerce, retail media, artificial intelligence, audience resolution,

and production across world markets. In addition, we consistently review opportunities within our Company to enhance our operations through acquisitions

and strategic alliances and internal programs that encourage client-centric collaboration. As appropriate, we also develop relationships with technology and

emerging media companies that are building leading-edge marketing tools that complement our agencies' skill sets and capabilities.

In recent years, we have taken several major strategic steps to position our agencies as leaders in the global advertising and communications market.

These include:

• Investment in leading talent: We believe our continued ability to attract and develop top talent and to be an industry employer of choice for an

increasingly diverse workforce have been key differentiators for IPG. We continue to acquire and develop top strategic, creative and digital talent

from a range of backgrounds.

• Growing our identity, data, digital commerce and platform capabilities: Our investments in talent and technology - growing data, identity

resolution and platform capabilities - promise to drive further growth in this dynamic sector of our business. More than ever clients need audience-led

thinking to solve for a widening set of business problems and opportunities in a digital-first world.

• Reinventing healthcare marketing: We have enhanced and strengthened our leadership position to deliver a comprehensive suite of services and

global reach for healthcare clients. To do so, we have attracted and developed the industry’s most awarded and experienced talent, including

scientists, strategists, creatives and engagement specialists across the entire healthcare marketing spectrum, enabling us to deliver healthcare

information at speed, in ways that are highly personal, culturally relevant, as well as respectful of privacy.

• Retail media: We developed and launched a unified retail media network solution to provide brands with a holistic view of their performance across

this fast-growth ecosystem of retail platforms. This capability, in turn, integrates with our commerce offering across the company, which extends to

all core marketing functions – whether that’s media, creative, experiential, or PR and earned impressions.

Analytics teams, as well as modeling and decisioning tools, are core to all these strategic efforts. These are also areas where we continue to make

investments in artificial intelligence. Combined with the latest advances in generative AI, we are now adding intelligence to the creation of content across the

marketing spectrum. Together, these steps have built a culture of strategic creativity and high performance for marketers across IPG. We believe in the

continued competitiveness of our offerings, the value of our long-term strategy, and the strength of our culture.

In 2023, IPG was once again ranked as the #1 most creatively effective holding company at the U.S. Effie Awards, the second consecutive year the

Company has won this title. Altogether, 18 IPG agencies secured top honors across a range of categories and clients at the awards.

Data Offerings

IPG has incorporated data expertise into the core of the Company, as reflected most clearly in our acquisition in 2018 and subsequent integration of

Acxiom, a leading enterprise data management company. Understanding data and its power is critical to the current and future success of our Company and

our clients. We believe an ethical and conscious approach to data that respects consumer privacy will continue to be crucial as we navigate increased

regulation in the digital media space.

Going forward, we plan to continue to enhance the technology layer within our offerings and to build tech-enabled marketing solutions, informed by a

holistic understanding of audiences. This allows us to deliver personalized user experiences and more accountable marketing for brands. Combining the power

of creativity and technology, we are able to provide marketing, communications and business transformation services that help marketers and brands succeed

in today’s digital economy.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

IPG and our agencies are committed to diversity and inclusion, and we reinforce these values through a comprehensive set of award-winning

programs. These include business resource groups that develop career building programs, as well as training around topics like unconscious bias. We seek to

ensure accountability by tying executive compensation directly to the ability of

3

Table of Contents

our leaders to hire, promote and retain diverse talent, and we regularly measure the inclusiveness of our culture with a company-wide climate for inclusion

survey.

We began our formal programs over a decade ago. Since then, IPG has seen notable improvements in the diversity of our workforce, and further progress

is a management priority. We believe that an environment that encourages respect and trust is key to a creative business like ours, and that a competitive

advantage comes with having a variety of perspectives and beliefs in our workforce.

We have been widely recognized for our efforts in this area. In January 2024 we announced that IPG had received several honors that recognize its

initiatives and transparency around Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) efforts this year. The honors include IPG’s fourth year on the Dow Jones

Sustainability Index (North America), 14th year on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2023-2024 Corporate Equality Index, and recognition on “Best

Places to Work for Disability Inclusion” by Disability Equality Index, among other accolades and ratings.

Acquisition Strategy

A disciplined acquisition strategy, focused on high-growth capabilities and regions of the world, is one component of growing our services in today's

rapidly-changing marketing services and media landscape. When an outstanding resource or a strong tactical fit becomes available, we have been

opportunistic over the years in making tuck-in, niche acquisitions that enhance our service offerings.

In recent years, IPG has acquired agencies across the marketing spectrum, including firms specializing in data and tech, e-commerce, mobile marketing,

social media, healthcare communications and public relations, as well as agencies with full-service capabilities. These acquired agencies have been integrated

into one of our global networks or specialist agencies. During 2023, IPG continued to further evolve our offerings, investing in new capabilities and

innovation to help our clients succeed in today’s digital economy.

Our People

Because of the service character of our business, the quality of personnel is of crucial importance to our continuing success, and our employees, including

creative, digital, research, media and account specialists, and their skills and relationships with clients, are among our most valuable assets. We conduct

extensive employee training and development throughout our agencies and benchmark our compensation programs against those of our industry for their

competitiveness and effectiveness in recruitment and retention. There is keen competition for qualified employees.

As of December 31, 2023, we employed approximately 57,400 people, of which approximately 23,800 were employed in the United States.

As of December 31, 2023

Total 57,400

Domestic 23,800

International 33,600

United Kingdom 5,200

Continental Europe 6,800

Asia Pacific 10,500

Latin America 7,000

Other 4,100

We employ a balanced approach in managing our human capital resources. Depending on where a human-capital management function is most effective

or efficient, processes are either managed at the holding company or designated to our operating units to adopt strategies appropriate for their client sector,

workforce makeup, talent requirements and business demands.

The holding company retains oversight of all human capital resources and activities, setting standards and providing support and policy guidance and

sharing programs. At the corporate level, centralized human capital management processes include development of human resources governance and policy;

executive compensation for senior leaders across the Company; benefits programs; succession planning focusing on the performance, development and

retention of the Company’s senior-most executives and key roles in the operating units; and executive development.

4

Table of Contents

IPG sets specific standards for human capital management and, on a yearly basis, assesses each operating unit’s performance in managing and developing

its workforce. We undertake human capital initiatives with an aim of ensuring that employees have the high level of competence and commitment our

businesses need to succeed. We formally assess our operating units against their efforts in the areas of people development, diversity and inclusion,

performance management, talent acquisition and organization development in order to drive or support the units’ strategic business and growth goals.

Accordingly, the operating units create and deploy skills-training programs, management training, employee goal-setting and feedback platforms, applicant-

tracking systems, new-employee onboarding processes, and other programs intended to enhance the performance and engagement of the workforce.

As discussed above under Market Strategy — Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, diversity, equity and inclusion are essential priorities for IPG. Our goal is

that our talent represents the diversity of our communities and consumers, with a corporate culture that drives belonging, well-being and growth. We believe

that such a workplace will enable us to provide cultural insights to help our clients make authentic and responsible connections with their customers. The

programs we provide in support of diversity, equity and inclusion include events, training and curated and bespoke content, research and tools, to foster

awareness and action on an array of critical issues that we believe are vital for the recruitment, retention, advancement, well-being and belonging for people

who are part of under-represented groups. We also foster business resource groups that offer programs on all facets of diversity and inclusion in support of our

employees.

Environmental Sustainability Initiatives

IPG understands that climate change has consequences for all of us, bringing challenges for environmental protection, social wellbeing and good

governance. It is a priority for our company to take action to address both causes and impacts of climate change. Our commitment includes measuring our

carbon footprint and working toward limiting that footprint.

We believe that an integrated approach to ESG – which pursues environmental protection, social protection and good governance simultaneously – brings

mutual benefits to our people and the communities where we live and work. To further its environmental goals, the Company works to limit carbon emissions

by focusing on areas that include:

• using energy efficiently,

• managing travel with a sustainability lens,

• employing green building practices in our real estate holdings,

• tracking progress on sustainability metrics, and

• working toward greater responsibility for waste and consumption in the spaces we occupy.

In June 2021, Interpublic announced that as part of its commitment to environmental sustainability, the Company is moving forward on an ambitious

climate action plan that consists of three simultaneous quantitative goals:

• Science-Based Targets: The Company's near-term emissions reduction targets have been submitted to and validated by the Science Based Targets

initiative (SBTi). This commitment also makes Interpublic a signatory to the Business Ambition for 1.5°C and a member of the United Nations-

backed Race to Zero campaign.

• Renewable Electricity: The Company also committed to sourcing 100% renewable electricity by 2030 for its entire portfolio.

• Net-Zero Carbon Emissions: Additionally, the Company formally joined The Climate Pledge, a commitment to reaching net-zero carbon across our

business by 2040.

As part of our sustainability efforts and to record our commitments and progress, we currently report annually on our energy use and greenhouse gas

emissions. This data, which we began measuring in 2015, is reported in line with frameworks that include the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”), the CDP

(formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”) and the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial

Disclosures ("TCFD").

In our 2020 GRI report, IPG, for the first time, reported the operational emissions (scope one and scope two emissions) across its entire global portfolio.

For 2021, we expanded our assessment of and reporting on scope three emissions to account for and work on reducing impacts throughout the Company’s

entire value chain. With IPG’s 2021 ESG report, the Company became the first U.S.-based advertising holding company to receive limited external assurance

on certain ESG data and the first to disclose in accordance with TCFD recommendations. Our 2022 report added third-party assurance for GHG emissions

from Scope 3/Category 6, Business Travel, and our 2023 report will include this metric as well.

As part of its sustainability efforts, IPG supports numerous community-based organizations and is actively involved in partnerships that bring together

companies to advance climate action. Among these, IPG is a member of the Global Leadership Group of Ad Net Zero, a trade organization with a goal of

supporting the advertising industry as it moves toward a net-zero carbon future for advertising production. We are also a participant of the U.N. Global

Compact and an active supporter of the

5

Table of Contents

U.N. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 17 global goals adopted by the United Nations General Assembly as part of its 2030 Agenda for Sustainable

Development.

In recognition of our commitment to and implementation of sustainable business practices, IPG is listed on several ESG-related indices, including the

Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) North America. The DJSI North America scores and ranks the ESG performance of the 600 largest U.S. and Canadian

companies; the top 20% of sustainability performers are listed on the Index. The Company is also included on the FTSE4Good Index, which identifies

companies that demonstrate strong ESG practices measured against international standards.

Our latest ESG report and CDP response are available on the “ESG Reporting” page of our website, www.interpublic.com. Information on our website is

not part of this report.

Financial Objectives

Our financial goals include competitive organic growth of revenue before billable expenses and expansion of Adjusted EBITA margin, as defined and

discussed within the Non-GAAP Financial Measure section of the MD&A, which we expect will further strengthen our balance sheet and total liquidity and

increase value to our shareholders. Accordingly, we remain focused on meeting the evolving needs of our clients while concurrently managing our cost

structure. Our disciplined approach to our balance sheet and liquidity provides us with a solid financial foundation and financial flexibility to manage and

grow our business. We believe that our strategy and execution position us to meet our financial goals and to deliver long-term value to all of our stakeholders.

Financial Reporting Segments

We determined we conduct our business across three reportable segments described in Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

The three reportable segments are: Media, Data & Engagement Solutions ("MD&E"), Integrated Advertising & Creativity Led Solutions ("IA&C"), and

Specialized Communications & Experiential Solutions ("SC&E"). MD&E is comprised of IPG Mediabrands, Acxiom, and KINESSO, as well as our digital

and commerce specialist agencies, which include MRM, R/GA, and Huge. IA&C is comprised of leading global networks and agencies that provide a broad

range of services, including McCann Worldgroup, IPG Health, MullenLowe Group, Foote, Cone & Belding ("FCB"), and our domestic integrated agencies.

SC&E is comprised of agencies that provide a range of marketing services expertise, including Weber Shandwick, Golin, our sports, entertainment, and

experiential agencies, and IPG DXTRA Health.

We also report results for the “Corporate and other” group. See Note 15 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further information.

Sources of Revenue

Our revenues are primarily derived from the planning and execution of multi-channel advertising, marketing and communications programs around the

world. Our revenues are directly dependent upon the advertising, marketing and corporate communications requirements of our existing clients and our ability

to win new clients. Most of our client contracts are individually negotiated, and, accordingly, the terms of client engagements and the bases on which we earn

commissions and fees vary significantly. As is customary in the industry, our contracts generally provide for termination by either party on relatively short

notice, usually 30 to 90 days, although our data management contracts typically have non-cancelable terms of more than one year.

Revenues for the creation and production of advertising or the planning and placement of media are determined primarily on a negotiated fee basis and, to

a lesser extent, on a commission basis. Fees are usually calculated to reflect hourly rates plus proportional overhead and a mark-up. Many clients include an

incentive compensation component in their total compensation package. This provides added revenue based on achieving mutually agreed-upon qualitative or

quantitative metrics within specified time periods. Commissions are earned based on services provided.

We also generate revenue from data and technology offerings and in negotiated fees from our public relations, sales promotion, experiential marketing,

sports and entertainment marketing, and corporate and brand identity services.

In most of our businesses, our agencies enter into commitments to pay production and media costs on behalf of clients, as is customary in the advertising

and marketing industries. To the extent possible, we pay production and media charges after we have received funds from our clients, and in some instances

we agree with the provider that we will only be liable to pay the production and media costs after the client has paid us for the charges. Generally, we act as

the client’s agent rather than the primary obligor in these arrangements.

6

Table of Contents

Our revenue is typically lowest in the first quarter and highest in the fourth quarter.

Consolidated Total Revenues for the Three Months Ended

2023 2022 2021

(Amounts in Millions) % of Total % of Total % of Total

March 31 $ 2,521.0 23.2% $ 2,568.5 23.5% $ 2,257.0 22.0%

June 30 2,666.5 24.4% 2,735.7 25.1% 2,509.6 24.6%

September 30 2,678.5 24.6% 2,637.7 24.1% 2,542.0 24.8%

December 31 3,023.3 27.8% 2,985.9 27.3% 2,932.1 28.6%

$ 10,889.3 $ 10,927.8 $ 10,240.7

Clients

Our large and diverse client base includes many of the most recognizable companies and brands throughout the world. Our holding company structure

allows us to maintain a diversified client base across and within a full range of industry sectors. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue before

billable expenses accounted for approximately 20% of revenue before billable expenses in 2023 and 2022. Our largest client accounted for approximately 4%

of revenue before billable expenses in 2023 and 2022. Based on revenue before billable expenses for the year ended December 31, 2023, our largest client

sectors (in alphabetical order) were financial services, healthcare, and technology and telecom. We represent several different clients, brands or divisions

within each of these sectors in a number of geographic markets, as well as provide services across multiple advertising and marketing disciplines, in each case

through more than one of our agency brands. Representation of a client rarely means that we handle advertising for all brands or product lines of the client in

all geographical locations. Any client may transfer its business from one of our agencies to another one of our agencies or to a competing agency, and a client

may change its marketing budget at any time.

We operate in a highly competitive advertising and marketing communications industry. Our operating companies compete against other large

multinational advertising and marketing communications companies as well as numerous independent and niche agencies and new forms of market

participants to win new clients and maintain existing client relationships. See Item 1A, Risk Factors - We operate in a highly competitive industry.

Regulatory Environment

The advertising and marketing services that our agencies provide are subject to governmental regulation and other action in all of the jurisdictions in

which the Company operates. While these governmental regulations and other actions can impact the Company’s operations, the specific marketing

regulations we may face in a given market do not as a general matter significantly impact the Company’s overall service offerings or the nature in which we

provide these services.

Governments, government agencies and industry self-regulatory bodies have adopted laws, regulations and standards, and judicial bodies have issued

rulings, that directly or indirectly affect the form and content of advertising, public relations and other marketing activities we produce or conduct on behalf of

our clients. These laws, regulations and other actions include content-related rules with respect to specific products and services, restrictions on media

scheduling and placement, required disclosures regarding influencers and other endorsers and labeling or warning requirements with respect to certain

products, for example pharmaceuticals, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, and food and nutritional supplements. We are also subject to rules related to

marketing directed to certain groups, such as children.

Digital marketing services are a dynamic and growing component of our business. Our service offerings in this area are covered by laws and regulations

concerning user privacy, use of personal information, data protection and online tracking technologies. We are also subject to laws and regulations that govern

whether and how we can transfer, process or receive certain data that we use in our operations, including data shared between countries or regions in which we

operate. While we maintain policies and operational procedures to promote effective privacy protection and data management, existing and proposed laws and

regulations in this area, such as the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) in the European Economic Area and as retained in the United Kingdom; the

California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”), and other comprehensive privacy laws in several U.S. states; and

other different forms of privacy legislation enacted or under consideration across the markets in which we operate, can impact the development, efficacy and

profitability of internet-based and other digital marketing. Limitations on the scheduling, content or delivery of direct marketing activities can likewise impact

the activities of our agencies offering those services. See Item 1A, Risk Factors - We are subject to industry regulations and other legal or reputational risks

that could restrict our activities or negatively impact our financial performance or financial condition.

With agencies and clients located in over 100 countries worldwide, we are also subject to laws governing our international operations. These include

broad anti-corruption laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and the U.K. Bribery Act (2010), which generally prohibit the making or

offering of improper payments to government officials and political

7

Table of Contents

figures. Export controls and economic sanctions regimes, such as those maintained by the U.S. government and comparable ones by the U.K., the member

states of the European Union and the U.N., impose limitations on the Company’s ability to operate in certain geographic regions, including Russia, or to seek

or service certain potential clients. Likewise, our Treasury operations must comply with exchange controls, restrictions on currency repatriation and the

control requirements of applicable anti-money-laundering statutes.

Available Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports are available, free

of charge, on our website at www.interpublic.com under the "For Investors" section, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports

with, or furnish them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") at www.sec.gov.

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Interpublic Group Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct and the charters for each of the Audit Committee,

Compensation and Leadership Talent Committee, and Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committee are available, free of charge, on our

website at www.interpublic.com in the "Corporate Governance" subsection of the "About" section. Information on our website is not part of this report.

8

Table of Contents

Executive Officers of IPG

Name Age Office

Philippe Krakowsky 61 Chief Executive Officer

Ellen Johnson 58 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Andrew Bonzani 60 Executive Vice President and General Counsel

Christopher F. Carroll 57 Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer

There is no family relationship among any of the executive officers.

Mr. Krakowsky is Chief Executive Officer of IPG, a role he assumed on January 1, 2021. He is also a member of IPG’s Board of Directors. Prior to being

named IPG's CEO, Mr. Krakowsky served as the company’s Chief Operating Officer beginning in September 2019, managing business operations across

Interpublic, with direct oversight of IPG’s independent companies including Carmichael Lynch, Deutsch, Hill Holliday, Huge and R/GA and IPG's Media,

Data and Technology offerings including IPG Mediabrands, Acxiom, KINESSO and Matterkind. During that time, Mr. Krakowsky was also Chairman of IPG

Mediabrands. Over the course of his nearly two-decade tenure at IPG, Mr. Krakowsky has also led the strategy, talent, communications and business

development functions for the holding company. Before taking on the COO role at IPG, Mr. Krakowsky spent a number of years as CEO of Mediabrands,

leading the 10,500-person media investment unit, as well as served as interim-CEO of FCB. From February 2011 until assuming the role of COO, Mr.

Krakowsky was also IPG’s Chief Strategy and Talent Officer, where he oversaw key functions that have been vital to the company’s development and growth.

Ms. Johnson became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective January 1, 2020. Prior to that time, Ms. Johnson

served as Senior Vice President of Finance and Treasurer from February 2013 to December 31, 2020, and as Senior Vice President and Treasurer from October

2004 to February 2013. She served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of The Partnership, a division of IPG from May 2004 to October

2004, and prior to that, served as Assistant Treasurer, International from February 2000 to May 2004.

Mr. Bonzani was hired as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in April 2012. He was promoted to Executive Vice President, General

Counsel and Secretary in February 2019 and now serves as Executive Vice President and General Counsel as of February 2021. Prior to joining IPG, Mr.

Bonzani worked at IBM for 18 years, holding a number of positions in the legal department, most recently as Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and

Secretary from July 2008 to March 2012.

Mr. Carroll was named Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer in April 2006. In 2017, Mr. Carroll assumed additional

responsibilities as Chief Financial Officer for DXTRA. Mr. Carroll served as Senior Vice President and Controller of McCann Worldgroup from November

2005 to March 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Carroll served in various Chief Accounting Officer and Controller roles, as well as a Financial Vice President at

Lucent Technologies, Inc. and began his professional career at PricewaterhouseCoopers from October 1991 to September 2000.

9

Table of Contents

Item 1A. Risk Factors

We are subject to a variety of possible risks that could adversely impact our revenues, results of operations or financial condition. Some of these risks

relate to general economic and financial conditions, while others are more specific to us and the industry in which we operate. The following factors set out

potential risks we have identified that could adversely affect us. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not

yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, could also have a negative impact on our business operations or financial condition. See also Statement

Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.

Risks Related to the Global Market and the Economy

• Our results of operations are highly susceptible to unfavorable or uncertain economic conditions.

We are exposed to risks associated with weak or uncertain regional or global economic conditions and disruption in the financial markets. Market

conditions can be and have been adversely affected by natural and human disruptions, such as natural disasters, public health crises, severe weather events,

military conflict or civil unrest. Economic downturns or uncertainty about the strength of the global economy generally, or adverse economic conditions in

certain regions or market sectors and resulting caution with respect to spending on the part of marketers, can have and has had a negative effect on the demand

for advertising and marketing communication services. The global economy continues to be challenging, including as a result of the adverse effects of the

continuing impact of supply chain and labor disruptions, inflationary pressures and conflict in Ukraine and the Middle East. Any prolonged disruption to

business or financial markets in the United States, which accounted for approximately 65% of our consolidated total revenue in 2023, as a result of anticipated

or actual governmental shutdowns or debt defaults could have an adverse impact on our clients and our business. Our industry has in the past been affected

more severely than other sectors by an economic downturn and recovered more slowly than the economy in general. Previously in response to negative

economic and financial conditions, including in connection with the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, some clients responded by reducing their

marketing budgets, which include discretionary components that are easier to reduce in the short term than other operating expenses. Our 2023 results for

example, were negatively impacted by significant reductions in spending by clients in the technology & telecom sector. This pattern may recur in the future.

Furthermore, unexpected revenue shortfalls can result in misalignments of costs and revenues, resulting in a negative impact to our operating margins. If

our business is significantly adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions or other market disruptions that adversely affect client spending, the

negative impact on our revenue could pose a challenge to our operating income and cash generation from operations.

• The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and any future public health crises may in the future adversely impact our business, financial condition and

results of operations.

The COVID-19 pandemic created both regional and worldwide operational volatility and uncertainty in certain markets and sectors that have been slower

to rebound or continue to face lingering disruptions. Some clients, particularly in the early months of the pandemic, responded to resulting weak or volatile

economic and financial conditions by reducing their marketing budgets, thereby decreasing the market and demand for our services, or adjusted, reduced or

suspended operating activities, which negatively impacted certain of the markets or industries we serve. These patterns may recur in future periods, including

as a result of pandemic developments such as the emergence of new virus variants that may be more transmissible, virulent or both.

Risks Related to Our Industry and Operations

• We operate in a highly competitive industry.

The advertising and marketing communications business is highly competitive and constantly changing. Our agencies and media services compete with

other agencies and other providers of creative, marketing or media services to maintain existing client relationships and to win new business. Our competitors

include not only other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies, but also smaller entities that operate in local or regional

markets as well as new forms of market participants.

Competitive challenges also arise from rapidly evolving and new technologies in the marketing and advertising space, creating opportunities for new and

existing competitors and a need for continued significant investment in tools, technologies and process improvements. As data-driven marketing solutions

become increasingly core to the success of our brands, and with the development of new and emerging technologies like generative AI, any failure to keep up

with rapidly changing technologies and standards in this space could harm our competitive position. These technologies also present risks related to ethical

considerations, intellectual property protection and privacy and data protection.

The client’s perception of the quality of our agencies’ creative work, its confidence in our ability to protect the confidentiality of their and their

customers’ data and its relationships with key personnel at the Company or our agencies are important factors that affect our competitive position. An

agency’s ability to serve clients, particularly large international clients, on a broad geographic basis and across a range of services and technologies may also

be an important competitive

10

Table of Contents

consideration. On the other hand, because an agency’s principal asset is its people and freedom of entry into the industry is almost unlimited, our relationships

with clients can be affected by the departure of key personnel and a small agency is, on occasion, able to take all or some portion of a client’s account from a

much larger competitor.

• Clients may terminate or reduce their relationships with us on short notice.

Many companies put their advertising and marketing communications business up for competitive review from time to time, and we have lost client

accounts in the past as a result of such periodic competitions. Our clients may choose to terminate their contracts, or reduce their relationships with us, on a

relatively short time frame and for any reason. A relatively sm

[Content truncated due to length...]