2024 Lincoln National Corporation

Annual Report

to Shareholders

2024 Annual Letter to Shareholders

Dear Shareholders,

At Lincoln Financial, our unwavering dedication to our purpose—providing financial protection and security to our customers and their

families—has consistently guided our decisions and actions, positioning us to deliver enduring value to all stakeholders throughout our

120-year history. Remaining committed to our purpose enables our more than 17 million customers to make their pastimes last a lifetime.

In 2024, our relentless focus on our purpose, combined with the robust execution of our strategic initiatives, yielded strong results that

surpassed our expectations, underscoring our ability to deliver sustained growth and profitability. Our core organizational values shape

how we work and service our customers. By continually investing in the products, tools and capabilities that directly address customer

needs, we further enhance the value we deliver and reinforce our role as a trusted partner.

Strategic Objectives

We are on a multi-year journey to transform Lincoln, and our strategy to accomplish that is based on three objectives:

Build Foundational Capital

• Build and maintain capital required to ensure enterprise stability across

market cycles.

• Support ongoing investments to drive profitable growth.

• Enhance flexibility to respond to evolving market conditions and

Build competitive dynamics.

foundational

capital Optimize Our Operating Model

• Advance a scalable framework for efficiently managing enterprise

resources and activities.

• Maximize cost efficiency, expand asset sourcing capabilities and optimize

capital allocation.

Optimize Drive • Enhance processes and infrastructure to support business growth and

operating profitable elevate customer value proposition.

model growth

Drive Profitable Growth

• Shift toward businesses and products with more stable cash flows.

• Focus on maximizing risk-adjusted returns while reducing sensitivity to

equity market volatility.

• Target growth in markets and products that increase long-term earnings

potential.

Since embarking on our journey in 2023, we have demonstrated substantial progress as we evolve into an organization characterized by

businesses, market segments and products that deliver stable cash flows and higher risk-adjusted returns. We continue to prioritize

profitable growth and sustainable margins over top-line growth, emphasizing opportunities that leverage our competitive advantages and

differentiation.

Highlights of Enterprise Strategies and Business Results

Last year, we advanced towards our goal of building and maintaining a risk-based capital (“RBC”) ratio of 420%, a 20 percentage point

buffer over our 400% RBC target. The closing of the sale of our wealth management business in the second quarter, together with other

management actions that increased our capital position throughout the year, resulted in ending 2024 with an RBC ratio of over 430%. We

also improved our leverage ratio.

During 2024, we optimized our operating model through targeted actions to reduce costs and increase organizational efficiency while

investing to drive future profitable growth. We established Lincoln Pinehurst (“LPINE”), our Bermuda-based affiliated reinsurer, and

executed our first fixed annuity internal flow agreement through LPINE in the fourth quarter. We further optimized our investment

strategy through enhanced strategic asset allocation while remaining at 97% investment grade and with a long-term framework

constructed for various economic cycles and a range of potential outcomes.

We also advanced on our objective to deliver profitable growth from our Group Protection business across products and market

segments while prioritizing sustainable margin expansion over top-line growth. We evolved our Annuities business to a more balanced

mix with a higher proportion of spread-based products, repositioned our Life Insurance business by optimizing our product portfolio and

realigning our distribution model and built upon the products and capabilities of our Retirement Plan Services business.

> 430% $13.7 billion

RBC ratio, Full-year Annuities sales,

> 30 percentage points highest since 2019,

above target supported by a diversified product mix

8.3% $311.9 billion

~280 basis points improvement 7% year-over-year growth

in Group Protection in average account balances,

full-year operating margin1 net of reinsurance

(1) Excludes annual assumption review impact of $(1) million and $24 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively.

Goals of Business Strategy

Each of our businesses has specific initiatives that support our long-term strategic and financial objectives. Our strategic priorities in each

business are centered around shifting to products with higher risk-adjusted returns and more stable cash flows. By leveraging our deep

understanding of customer needs, we continue to deliver holistic solutions and compelling value propositions across the customer

experience.

• In Annuities, we are growing our addressable market by extending into spread-based products, increasing market

competitiveness by developing new product features and optimizing our strategic asset allocation to support spread expansion.

• In Life Insurance, we are optimizing our product portfolio to support a pivot toward accumulation and protection products

with more risk sharing. We also remain focused on expense reduction efforts to drive operational efficiency and earnings

growth, optimizing our legacy in-force portfolio and increasing earnings.

• In Group Protection, we are driving growth by diversifying across market segments, with a focus on increasing our presence in

local markets. We are also expanding and deepening our product portfolio, with an emphasis on supplemental health products,

and maintaining pricing discipline to drive profitable growth while investing in capabilities to elevate the customer experience.

• In Retirement Plan Services, we are focused on growth in our core recordkeeping and institutional market segments through

our differentiated service model. We are also expanding access to retirement solutions by leveraging our distribution

relationships and product innovation, while increasing our operational and expense efficiencies to improve profitability.

For the fourth consecutive year, we have been recognized as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies®.

Our commitment to integrity is central to our identity, and ethical behavior is embedded in every facet of our culture and values. In

fulfilling our purpose, we focus not only on what we do but also on how we do it. We are defined by our unwavering commitment to

ethical conduct, truthfulness and always doing what is right. Collectively, these qualities strengthen our financial performance and

differentiate us in the marketplace.

“Ethisphere” and “World’s Most Ethical Companies” names and marks are registered trademarks of Ethisphere LLC.

We refreshed our brand and logo to reinforce our enduring commitment to our customers.

Collectively, our four businesses deliver financial protection and security to our customers who rely on us to support their financial

futures. Looking ahead, we seek to enable more people to confidently succeed their way, and we treat every customer’s future with care.

Our new logo is designed to enhance our brand recognition and our new tagline, Your Tomorrow. Our Priority.TM, embodies our focus on

stewardship and our unwavering commitment to being there for our customers today and tomorrow.

Our commitment to our employees is the foundation of our success.

Our people continue to be our most valuable asset as we cultivate a culture of dignity, respect, belonging and meritocracy that underpins

our unwavering commitment to serving customers with compassion, care and dedication. Our employees are empowered by our Core

Values, which are built around three key pillars: (1) fostering each employee’s pursuit of excellence, emphasizing ethics, passion and

accountability to drive individual and collective success; (2) embracing the spirit of One Team Lincoln, where collaboration and integrity

form the foundation of our welcoming culture; and (3) delivering exceptional results for our customers and stakeholders in every aspect

of our operations. These values underscore our commitment to creating an employee experience that attracts, retains and develops top

talent, ensuring we remain competitive and innovative. I want to extend my deepest gratitude to all our valued employees for their

relentless efforts, dedication and diligence, which were instrumental in achieving our successes in 2024.

Our success is also intertwined with the well-being of the communities in which we operate, and our commitment to community

engagement and positive impact remains steadfast.

The Path Ahead

Our performance in 2024 increases our confidence in achieving our longer-term financial and strategic objectives. In 2025, we anticipate

another year of investment to further accelerate our substantial business momentum while continuing our multi-year journey to create a

durable path to delivering long-term value creation. We will further leverage our competitive advantages, including our powerful

franchise, distribution leadership, broad product portfolio and trusted brand to serve our customers and deliver on our vision.

On behalf of our leadership team and Board of Directors, I want to express our sincere gratitude to our shareholders, customers, partners

and, again, to our employees. Your trust and support remain invaluable as we continue to execute our strategy and capture the

opportunities ahead of us.

Ellen G. Cooper

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––

Forward-Looking Statements – Cautionary Language

Statements in this letter that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those

projected in the forward-looking statements. See “Forward-Looking Statements – Cautionary Language” beginning on page 41 and “Risk

Factors” beginning on page 21. The reporting of RBC measures is not intended for the purpose of ranking any insurance company or for

use in connection with any marketing, advertising or promotional activities.

[This page intentionally left blank]

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

☒ Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024

OR

☐ Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the transition period from _________ to _________.

Commission File Number 1-6028

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________

LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________

Indiana 35-1140070

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

150 N. Radnor-Chester Road, Suite A305, Radnor, Pennsylvania 19087

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (484) 583-1400

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Name of each exchange on which

Title of each class Trading symbol

registered

Common Stock LNC New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1000th interest in a share LNC PRD New York Stock Exchange

of 9.000% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.

Yes ☐ No ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing

requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of

Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such

files). Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an

emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth

company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large Accelerated Filer Accelerated Filer

☒ ☐

Non-accelerated Filer Smaller Reporting Company

☐ ☐

Emerging Growth Company

☐

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any

new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal

control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that

prepared or issued its audit report. ☒

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the

filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation

received by any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

Yes ☐ No ☒

The aggregate market value of the shares of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates (based upon the closing price of these shares on the

New York Stock Exchange) as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter was $4.6 billion. Shares of

common stock held by each executive officer and director and each entity that owns 10% or more of the outstanding common stock have been excluded

in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. The determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes.

As of February 13, 2025, 170,403,822 shares of common stock of the registrant were outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference:

Selected portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, scheduled for May 22, 2025, have been incorporated by reference into

Part III of this Form 10-K.

Lincoln National Corporation

Table of Contents

PART I Page

Item 1. Business 1

Overview 1

Business Segments and Other Operations 2

Annuities 2

Life Insurance 4

Group Protection 7

Retirement Plan Services 8

Other Operations 10

Reinsurance 10

Investments 11

Financial Strength Ratings 11

Regulatory 12

Human Capital Management 19

Available Information 20

Item 1A. Risk Factors 21

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 35

Item 1C. Cybersecurity 35

Item 2. Properties 37

Item 3. Legal Proceedings 37

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 37

Information About our Executive Officers 38

PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 39

Item 6. [Reserved] 39

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 40

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 97

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 103

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 215

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 215

Item 9B. Other Information 215

Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 215

PART III

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 218

Item 11. Executive Compensation 218

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 218

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 218

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 218

PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 219

Index to Exhibits 220

Signatures 228

Index to Financial Statement Schedules FS-1

PART I

The “Business” section and other parts of this Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements that involve inherent risks and

uncertainties. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, and containing words such

as “believes,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “expects” or similar words are forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ

materially from the projected results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause such differences include, but

are not limited to, those discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and in the “Forward-Looking Statements – Cautionary Language” in “Part

II – Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“MD&A”) of the Form 10-K.

The consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements (“Notes”) are presented in

“Part II – Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Item 1. Business

OVERVIEW

Lincoln National Corporation (“LNC,” which also may be referred to as “Lincoln,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is a holding company that

operates multiple insurance and retirement businesses through subsidiary companies. Through our business segments, we sell a wide

range of wealth accumulation, wealth protection, group protection and retirement income products and solutions. LNC was organized

under the laws of the state of Indiana in 1968. We currently maintain our principal executive offices in Radnor, Pennsylvania. “Lincoln

Financial” is the marketing name for LNC and its subsidiary companies.

We provide products and services and report results through four business segments as follows:

• Annuities

• Life Insurance

• Group Protection

• Retirement Plan Services

We also have Other Operations, which includes the financial data for operations that are not directly related to the business segments.

The results of Lincoln Financial Distributors (“LFD”), our wholesale distributor are included in the segments for which it distributes

products. LFD distributes our individual life insurance and annuity products, retirement plan products and services and corporate-owned

universal life insurance and variable universal life insurance (“COLI”) and bank-owned universal life insurance and variable universal life

insurance (“BOLI”) products and services. The distribution occurs through financial intermediaries, including consultants, brokers,

planners, agents, financial advisers, third-party administrators (“TPAs”), financial institutions and other intermediaries. Group Protection

distributes its products and services primarily through employee benefit brokers, TPAs and other employee benefit firms. As of

December 31, 2024, LFD had approximately 440 internal and external wholesalers (including sales and relationship managers).

The results through May 6, 2024, of Lincoln Financial Network (“LFN”), our former retail distributor, are included in the business

segments for which it distributed products. See “Sale of Wealth Management Business” below for more information.

In addition to the discussion that follows, refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of

Operations” and Note 19 for additional information regarding each of our business segments and Other Operations.

Sale of Wealth Management Business

On May 6, 2024, we closed the sale of the subsidiaries of Lincoln that comprised its wealth management business operated through LFN

to Osaic Holdings, Inc. (“Osaic”), pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement entered into between LNC and Osaic on December 14,

2023 (the “Agreement”). Pursuant to the Agreement, we sold our ownership interests in the following subsidiaries: Lincoln Financial

Securities Corporation, Lincoln Financial Advisors Corporation, California Fringe Benefit and Insurance Marketing Corporation, LFA,

Limited Liability Company and LFA Management Corporation. For additional information, see Note 1.

1

BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND OTHER OPERATIONS

ANNUITIES

Overview

The Annuities segment provides tax-deferred investment growth and lifetime wealth accumulation and protection opportunities for its

clients by offering variable annuities, fixed (including indexed) annuities and registered index-linked annuities (“RILA”).

Annuities have several features that are attractive to customers. Annuities are unique in that policyholders can select a variety of payout

alternatives to provide an income flow for life. Many annuity contracts also include guarantee features (living and death benefits) that are

not found in any other investment vehicle and that, we believe, make annuities attractive especially in times of economic uncertainty. In

addition, growth on the underlying principal in annuities is typically granted tax-deferred treatment, thereby deferring the tax

consequences of the growth in value until withdrawals are made from the accumulation values, potentially at lower tax rates occurring

during retirement.

Products

In general, an annuity is a contract between an insurance company and an individual in which the insurance company, after receipt of one

or more premium payments, agrees to pay an amount of money either in one lump sum or on a periodic basis (i.e., annually, semi-

annually, quarterly or monthly), beginning on a certain date and continuing for a period of time as specified in the contract or as

requested. The payments may be made on either a guaranteed or non-guaranteed basis. Periodic payments can begin within 12 months

after the premium is received (referred to as an immediate annuity) or at a future date in time (referred to as a deferred annuity). This

retirement vehicle helps protect an individual from outliving their money.

The following discusses our annuity product offerings:

Variable Annuities

A variable annuity provides the contract holder the ability to direct their account balance into one or more variable accounts (“variable

funds”) offered through the separate accounts of our insurance companies where the investment risk is borne entirely by the contract

holder (“separate account balance”). The value of the variable portion of the contract holder’s account is driven by the performance of

the underlying variable funds chosen by the contract holder. Certain variable annuity products permit a contract holder to allocate a

portion of their account balance into a fixed account that is backed by the general account of our insurance companies where the contract

holder account balance is credited with an interest rate in accordance with the contract (“general account balance”). We expect to earn a

spread between what we earn on the underlying general account investments supporting the contract holders’ general account balance and

what we credit to our contract holders’ general account balance.

Our variable funds include non-managed risk funds as well as the Managed Risk Strategies fund options. The Managed Risk Strategies

funds are a series of funds that embed volatility risk management and, with some funds, capital protection strategies inside the funds

themselves. These funds seek to reduce equity market volatility risk for both the contract holder and us.

We charge contract holders mortality and expense assessments on their separate account balance to cover insurance and administrative

expenses. These assessments are a function of the rates priced into the product and the average daily separate account balance. Average

daily separate account balances are driven by net flows and variable fund returns. In addition, for some contracts, we impose surrender

charges, which are typically applicable to withdrawals during the early years of the annuity contract, with a declining level of surrender

charges over time.

We offer guaranteed benefit riders with certain of our variable annuity products, such as a guaranteed death benefit (“GDB”), a

guaranteed withdrawal benefit (“GWB”), a guaranteed income benefit (“GIB”) and a combination of such benefits.

The GDB features offered include those where we contractually guarantee to the contract holder that upon death, depending on the

particular product, we will return no less than: the current contract value; the total deposits made to the contract, adjusted to reflect any

partial withdrawals or, for certain products, adjusted to only reflect partial withdrawals over the specified level rate; the highest contract

value on a specified anniversary date adjusted to reflect any partial withdrawals following the contract anniversary; or an earnings

enhancement on gains in the contract.

We offer the optional Lincoln ProtectedPaySM lifetime income suite, which provides a GWB and includes: Secure Core, Secure Core with

Estate Lock, Secure Plus and Secure Max, and Select Core, Select Core with Estate Lock, Select Plus and Select Max. All provide contract

holders with protected lifetime income that is based on a maximum rate of the income base that grows annually for a specified period of

time at the greater of a specified simple rate or account balance growth. The riders provide higher income if the contract holder delays

2

withdrawals. The Secure Core and Select Core riders offer the option of GWBs and GIBs that provide a specified level rate of protected

income. The Secure Plus and Secure Max riders and Select Plus and Select Max riders provide contract holders with protected lifetime

income up to a specified maximum rate of the income base and a lower specified maximum rate of the income base if the account balance

falls to zero. Contract holders under the Secure riders are subject to the allocation of their account balance to our Managed Risk Strategies

fund options and certain fixed-income options. Contract holders under the Select riders are subject to restrictions on the allocation of

their account balance within the various investment choices. Secure Core with Estate Lock and Select Core with Estate Lock offer an

integrated GDB where the death benefit of the total deposits made to the contract is only adjusted to reflect any amount of partial

withdrawals that is over the specified level rate of protected GWB income. The death benefit is reduced to zero if the account balance is

reduced to zero.

We also offer the American Legacy® Target Date Income variable annuity with an optional Target Date Income Benefit rider, which

combines target date investing with a protected lifetime income. Contract holders who elect the Target Date Income Benefit are

automatically allocated to the Target Date Fund based on their year of birth. The protected lifetime income is based on a percentage rate

of income for their age at the time of purchase of the optional rider, which will grow at the greater of a specified simple rate (available

each year a withdrawal is not taken for a specified period of time) or account balance growth.

In addition, we offer the i4LIFE® Advantage Select GIB and i4LIFE Advantage Secure GIB riders. These riders allow variable annuity

contract holders access to and control over their account balance during a portion of the income distribution phase of their contract. In

general, GIB is an optional feature available with the i4LIFE Advantage rider that guarantees regular income payments will not fall below

the greater of a minimum income floor set at benefit issue and 65% (for the Select product) or 75% (for the Secure product) of the

highest income payment on a specified anniversary date (reduced for any subsequent withdrawals). Contract holders under the i4LIFE

Advantage Secure GIB rider are subject to the allocation of their account balance to our Managed Risk Strategies fund options and certain

fixed-income options.

We also offer the 4LATER® Select Advantage rider. This rider provides a minimum income base used to determine the GIB floor when a

client begins income payments under the i4LIFE Advantage Select GIB rider. The 4LATER Select Advantage rider provides growth

during the accumulation phase through both an enhancement to the income base each year a withdrawal is not taken for a specified

period of time and an annual step-up of the income base to the current contract value. Contract holders under the 4LATER Select

Advantage rider are subject to restrictions on the allocation of their account balance within the various investment choices.

We design and actively manage the features and structure of our guaranteed benefit riders to maintain a competitive suite of products

consistent with profitability and risk management goals. We use a variety of hedging strategies to mitigate the risks to the statutory capital

of our insurance subsidiaries associated with our guaranteed benefit riders. For more information on our hedging program, see

“Introduction – Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates – Market Risk Benefits” in the MD&A. For information regarding risks

related to our guaranteed benefits and hedging strategies, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Market Conditions – Changes in the equity

markets, interest rates and/or volatility affect the profitability of our products with guaranteed benefits; therefore, such changes may have

a material adverse effect on our business and profitability,” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Market Conditions – Our hedging strategies

may not be fully effective to offset the changes in the carrying value of the guarantees on certain of our products, which could result in

volatility in our results of operations and financial condition under GAAP and in the capital levels of our insurance and reinsurance

subsidiaries.”

Fixed Annuities

A fixed annuity preserves the principal value of the contract while guaranteeing a minimum interest rate to be credited to the

accumulation value. Our fixed annuity product offerings consist of traditional fixed-rate and fixed indexed deferred annuities, as well as

fixed-rate immediate and deferred income annuities with various payment options, including lifetime income. Fixed annuity contracts are

backed by the general account of our insurance companies where we bear the investment risk. To protect from premature withdrawals,

we impose surrender charges. Surrender charges are typically applicable during the early years of the contract, with a declining level of

surrender charges over time. On most policies, within the surrender charge period, we also have a market value adjustment provision that

protects us against disintermediation risk in the case of rapidly rising interest rates. We expect to earn a spread between what we earn on

the underlying general account investments supporting the fixed annuity product line and what we credit to our contract holders’ general

account balance.

We offer single and flexible premium fixed deferred annuities. Single premium fixed deferred annuities are contracts that allow only a

single premium to be paid. Flexible premium fixed deferred annuities are contracts that allow multiple premium payments, subject to

contractual limits, on either a scheduled or non-scheduled basis.

Our fixed indexed annuities allow the contract holder to choose between a fixed interest crediting rate and an indexed interest crediting

rate, which is based on the performance of the S&P 500® Index, the S&P 500 Daily Risk Control 5%TM Index, the S&P 500 Daily Risk

Control 10%TM Index, the J.P. Morgan First Trust Balanced Capital Strength 6SM Index, the J.P. Morgan First Trust Balanced Capital

3

Strength 5SM Index, the BlackRock Dynamic Allocation Index, or the Fidelity AIMSM Dividend Index. The indexed interest credit is

guaranteed never to be less than zero.

We use derivatives to hedge the equity market risk associated with our fixed indexed annuity products. For more information on our

hedging program, see “Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates – Derivatives” in the MD&A.

RILA

We have two RILA products, Lincoln Level Advantage® (“LLA”) and Lincoln Level Advantage 2® (“LLA2”). Lincoln Level Advantage provides

the contract holder the ability to direct the investment of premium deposits into one or more indexed accounts and/or variable funds

offered through the product. The index interest crediting rate for an indexed account is based, in part, on the performance of an index.

The available indices are the S&P 500® Index, the Russell 2000® Index, the MSCI EAFE, the Capital Strength Net Fee IndexSM, the First

Trust American Leadership IndexTM and the NASDAQ-100 Index®. A contract holder’s separate account balance varies with the

performance of the underlying variable funds chosen by the contract holder.

In 2024, we introduced LLA2, a new version of LLA that provides one or more indexed accounts. LLA2 offers the SecureLock+SM feature,

which enables the contract holder to capture gains and reset the growth potential and downside protection for an indexed account by

locking in the interim value intra term. The available indices are the S&P 500® Index, the Russell 2000® Index, the MSCI EAFE, the

Capital Strength Net Fee IndexSM, the First Trust American Leadership IndexTM, the Capital Group Growth ETF Index and the Capital

Group Global Growth ETF Index.

We charge contract holders mortality and expense assessments and administrative fees (for LLA) on their separate account balances to

cover insurance and administrative expenses. These assessments are a function of the rates priced into the product and the average daily

separate account balance. In addition, for some contracts, we impose surrender charges, which are typically applicable during the early

years of the annuity contract, with a declining level of surrender charges over time.

We offer a GDB rider where we contractually guarantee to the contract holder that upon death, depending on the particular product, we

will return no less than the current contract value or the total deposits made to the contract, adjusted to reflect any partial withdrawals.

We also offer the i4LIFE® Advantage rider on LLA. This rider allows annuity contract holders access and control during a portion of the

income distribution phase of their contract. This added flexibility allows the contract holder to access the account balance for transfers

and additional withdrawals.

We use derivatives to hedge the equity market risk associated with our indexed variable annuity products. For more information on our

hedging program, see “Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates – Derivatives” in the MD&A.

Distribution

The Annuities segment distributes its individual fixed and variable annuity products through LFD. LFD’s distribution channels give the

Annuities segment access to its target markets. LFD distributes the segment’s products to a large number of financial intermediaries,

including wire/regional firms, independent financial planners, financial institutions, registered investment advisers and managing general

agents.

Competition

The annuities market is very competitive and consists of many companies, with no one company dominating the market for all products.

The Annuities segment competes with numerous other financial services companies. The main factors upon which entities in this market

compete are distribution channel access and the quality of wholesalers, investment performance, cost, breadth of product portfolio and

features, speed to market, brand recognition, financial strength ratings, crediting rates and client service.

LIFE INSURANCE

Overview

The Life Insurance segment focuses on the creation and protection of wealth for its clients by providing life insurance products, including

term insurance, both single (including universal life insurance (“UL”), COLI and BOLI) and survivorship versions of indexed universal

life insurance (“IUL”) and variable universal life insurance (“VUL”) products, linked-benefit products (which are UL and VUL with riders

providing for long-term care costs), and critical illness and long-term care riders, which can be attached to IUL or VUL policies. Some of

our products include secondary guarantees, which are discussed more fully below.

4

In general, the Life Insurance segment’s sources of revenue include premium payments, cost of insurance assessments, expense and fee

charges and investment income. In turn, this segment incurs expenses, which include paying death claims, long-term care claims, and

surrender benefits, crediting interest, and accruing reserves for future claim payments, as well as other expenses related to the business.

The difference between revenue earned and expenses incurred is the profit for the Life Insurance business. Profitability, including

fluctuations from period to period, is impacted by factors such as changes in sales of products, mortality experience (the frequency and

severity of mortality claims paid during a given period), persistency and investment income. The impact of each factor varies by product

type. Generally, this segment has higher sales during the second half of the year with the fourth quarter being the strongest.

Products

We offer four categories of life insurance products, consisting of:

UL and IUL

UL products provide life insurance with account balances that earn rates of return solely based on company-declared interest rates.

Policyholder account balances are invested in the general account investment portfolio of our insurance companies where we bear the

investment risk. Our fixed IUL products function similarly to a traditional UL policy, with the added flexibility of allowing policyholders

to have portions of their account balances earn credits based on the performance of indices such as the S&P 500® Index. These products

include Lincoln WealthPreserve® IUL and Lincoln WealthAccumulate® IUL. In 2025, we expect to replace these products with new IUL

products that incorporate additional index options and features.

In a UL contract, policyholders typically have flexibility in the timing and amount of premium payments and the amount of death benefit,

provided there is sufficient account balance to cover all policy charges for cost of insurance and expenses for the coming period. Under

certain policyholder options and market conditions, the death benefit amount may increase or decrease. Premiums received on a UL

product, net of expense loads and charges, are added to the policyholder’s account balance and accrued with interest. The client has

access to their account balance (or a portion thereof), less surrender charges and policy loan payoffs, through contractual liquidity features

such as loans, partial withdrawals and full surrenders. Loans and withdrawals reduce the death benefit amount payable and are limited to

certain contractual maximums (some of which are required under state law), and interest is charged on all loans. Our UL contracts assess

surrender charges against the policies’ account balances for full or partial surrenders and certain policy changes that occur during the

contractual surrender charge period. Depending on the product selected, surrender charge periods can range from 0 to 25 years.

Our Lincoln PremierSM BOLI UL product is a UL-type product purchased by a bank that insures the lives of the bank’s employees.

We offer a survivorship version of our individual IUL products, Lincoln WealthPreserve® SIUL. This product insures two lives with a

single policy and pays death benefits upon the second death.

A UL policy with a lifetime secondary guarantee can stay in force, even if the base policy cash value is zero, as long as secondary

guarantee requirements have been met. The secondary guarantee requirement is based on the payment of a required minimum premium

or on the evaluation of a reference value within the policy, calculated in a manner similar to the base policy account balance, but using

different expense charges, cost of insurance charges and credited interest rates. The parameters for the secondary guarantee requirement

are listed in the contract. As long as the policyholder pays the minimum premium or funds the policy to a level that keeps this calculated

reference value positive, the policy is guaranteed to stay in force. The reference value has no actual monetary value to the policyholder; it

is only a calculated value used to determine whether or not the policy will lapse should the base policy cash value be less than zero.

During 2022, we discontinued new sales of UL products with lifetime secondary guarantees, but we still have an in-force block of such

products that we continue to administer.

VUL

VUL products are UL products that provide the policyholder the ability to direct their account balance into one or more variable funds

offered through the separate accounts of our insurance companies where the investment risk is borne entirely by the policyholder. The

value of the variable portion of the policyholder’s account balance is driven by the performance of the underlying variable funds chosen

by the policyholder. In addition, VUL products offer a fixed account option that is backed by the general account of our insurance

subsidiaries where the policyholder’s account balance is credited with interest rates as specified in the contract. As with fixed UL

products, policyholders have access, within contractual maximums, to account balances through loans, withdrawals and surrenders.

Surrender charges are assessed during the surrender charge period, ranging from 0 to 20 years depending on the product.

Our single life VUL offerings include the Lincoln AssetEdge® VUL and Lincoln PremierSM Private Placement VUL products. Private

Placement life insurance is individually owned by qualified purchasers or accredited investors.

We also offer a survivorship version of our Lincoln AssetEdge® VUL product. This product insures two lives with a single policy and pays

death benefits upon the second death.

5

Our Lincoln PremierSM VUL BOLI and COLI products and Lincoln Corporate ExecSM COLI products are also VUL-type products.

COLI products are owned by a corporation and insure the lives of the corporation’s employees.

During 2024, we discontinued new sales of VUL products with lifetime secondary guarantees, but we still have an in-force block of such

products that we continue to administer. A VUL policy with a lifetime secondary guarantee can stay in force, even if the base policy cash

value is zero, as long as secondary guarantee requirements have been met.

Our secondary guarantee benefits maintain the flexibility of a UL or VUL policy, which allow a policyholder to take loans or withdrawals.

Although loans and withdrawals are likely to shorten the time period of the secondary guarantee, the guarantee is not automatically or

completely forfeited. Additional premium may be deposited to extend the length of the guarantee. For additional information on our

reserves on UL and VUL products with secondary guarantees, see Note 12.

Linked-Benefit Life Products and Products with Critical Illness Riders

Lincoln MoneyGuard®, our linked-benefit life product group, combines UL or VUL with long-term care insurance through the use of a

rider or riders. The policy rider allows the policyholder to accelerate death benefits on a tax-free basis in the event of a qualified long-term

care need, reducing the remaining death benefit, and, once the death benefit is exhausted, offers access to an additional pool of dollars

that can be used for qualified long-term care expenses. Certain policies also provide a reduced death benefit to the policyholder’s

beneficiary if the death benefit has been fully accelerated as long-term care benefits during the policyholder’s life. Riders on MoneyGuard

products guarantee to the policyholder that upon death, as long as secondary guarantee requirements have been met, the death benefit or

long-term care expenses will be payable even if the account balance equals zero.

Some life products provide for critical illness or long-term care insurance by the use of riders attached to IUL or VUL policies. These

riders allow the policyholder to accelerate death benefits on a tax-free basis in the event of a qualified condition.

Term Life Insurance

Term life insurance provides a fixed death benefit for a scheduled period of time. Our term life insurance products give the policyholder

the option to convert into a UL, IUL or VUL product. Scheduled policy premiums are required to be paid at least annually. These

products include Lincoln TermAccel® Level Term and Lincoln LifeElements® Level Term.

Distribution

The Life Insurance segment’s products are sold through LFD. LFD provides the Life Insurance segment with access to financial

intermediaries in the following primary distribution channels: wire/regional firms; independent planner firms; financial institutions; and

managing general agents/independent marketing organizations. LFD distributes BOLI/COLI products and services to banks and mid- to

large-sized corporations, primarily through intermediaries who specialize in one or both of these markets and who are serviced through a

network of internal and external LFD sales professionals.

Competition

The life insurance market is very competitive and consists of many companies with no one company dominating the market for all

products. Principal competitive factors include product features, price, underwriting and issue process, customer service and insurers’

financial strength. With our broad distribution network, we compete in the three primary needs of life insurance: death benefit protection,

accumulation and linked benefits (MoneyGuard). In addition, we use automated underwriting within a defined criteria as well as

LincXpress®, a streamlined issue process, both of which are seen as marketplace competitive advantages.

Underwriting

In the context of life insurance, underwriting is the process of evaluating medical and non-medical information about an individual and

determining the effect these factors statistically have on mortality. This process of evaluation is often referred to as risk classification. No

one can accurately predict how long any individual will live, but certain risk factors can affect life expectancy and are evaluated during the

underwriting process.

Claims Administration

Claims service is handled primarily in-house, and claims examiners are assigned to each claim notification based on coverage amount, type

of claim and the experience of the examiner. Claims meeting certain criteria are referred to senior claims examiners. A formal quality

assurance program is carried out to ensure the consistency and effectiveness of claims examining activities. A network of in-house legal

counsel, compliance officers, medical personnel and an anti-fraud investigative unit also support claims examiners. A special team of

6

claims examiners, in conjunction with claims management, focus on more complex claims matters such as claims incurred during the

contestable period, beneficiary disputes and litigated claims. Long-term care claims are handled primarily by a third-party administrator.

GROUP PROTECTION

Overview

The Group Protection segment offers group non-medical insurance products and services, including short- and long-term disability

insurance and administration services, statutory disability and paid family medical leave administration and absence management services,

term life, accident, critical illness and hospital indemnity products, and dental and vision products to the employer marketplace through

various forms of employee-paid and employer-paid plans. Group Protection markets its products and services to employer groups of all

sizes, from small companies with fewer than 100 employees to large employers with 10,000 or more employees.

Products

Disability Insurance and Administrative Services

We offer insured coverage for, as well as administrative services for employer self-funded, short- and long-term employer-sponsored

group and voluntary disability insurance, which protects an employee against loss of wages due to illness or injury. Short-term disability

insurance generally provides weekly benefits for up to 26 weeks following a short waiting period, ranging from 1 to 30 days. Long-term

disability insurance provides benefits following a longer waiting period, usually between 90 and 180 days, and provides ben

[Content truncated due to length...]