For ward

We Go

American International Group, Inc.

2024 Annual Report

i AIG 2024 Annual Report

Dear AIG

Shareholder:

2024 was a year of tremendous accomplishment for

AIG. Against the backdrop of extreme natural weather

events, geopolitical tensions, economic volatility, and

rapid advancements in technology, AIG colleagues

demonstrated an unwavering commitment to providing

exceptional value to our clients and partners.

We generated tangible value for our shareholders and

invested in the future by maintaining underwriting

discipline, strategically deploying capital, and providing

creative risk solutions and superior claims service. At the

same time, we completed a multi-year transformation,

produced outstanding financial results, enhanced our

culture of underwriting and operational excellence,

significantly strengthened our balance sheet, reduced

our expense structure, and became simpler and leaner.

Today, we are a more focused, global general insurance

business with an exciting future ahead. Peter Zafino

Chairman & Chief Executive Oficer

Our most significant accomplishment in 2024 was the American International Group, Inc. (AIG)

strategic deconsolidation of Corebridge Financial –

the result of four years of planning, hard work and

perseverance. We positioned Corebridge for success by in underwriting and claims. We also heavily invested in

ensuring it had the capabilities to efectively operate as a our data and digital strategies. All of these eforts have

separate company and establishing a strong investment positioned AIG for future success in a rapidly evolving

portfolio operating model, enhanced by a strategic environment and sharpened our strategic direction,

relationship with Blackstone Group and a long-term culminating in the realignment of our general insurance

partnership with BlackRock. Since we announced the business into three distinct operating segments – North

separation of our life and retirement business, we America Commercial, International Commercial and

secured Blackstone as an anchor investor, executed the Global Personal.

largest US IPO of 2022, conducted five secondary market

transactions and completed the sale of a 21.6% stake in

Corebridge to Nippon Life Insurance Company, reducing

Our Remarkable

our holdings in Corebridge to 22.7% as of year-end.

Turnaround

The deconsolidation of Corebridge enabled us to

accelerate our progress on AIG Next, our initiative to We have come a long way and achieved an extraordinary

weave the company together. We achieved $450 million amount. In 2018, we were challenged with massive

in exit run-rate savings in 2024 and are on track to underwriting losses, an outsized debt-to-capital

reach a parent company expense level of 1% to 1.5% ratio, limited reinsurance and significant large limit

of net premiums earned by the end of 2025. We further deployment. These factors led to substantial net

connected our businesses, operations and functions exposures and the highest expense base among our

and strengthened our operational capabilities, notably peers. We took bold action by imposing rigorous

AIG 2024 Annual Report

“

We pride ourselves on executing with the highest quality, no

matter the task. I often tell my leadership team that the world

is only going to become harder to navigate, but we keep

getting better at 'hard.' Our relentless focus on excellence

”

positions us for a very bright future.

underwriting discipline, divesting non-core businesses, Our ability to consistently deliver strong financial results

reducing debt, and launching strategic transformation while reshaping our company is a testament to our

initiatives to focus on core business fundamentals and colleagues and the relationships they have built with

modernize our operations and technology infrastructure. our clients, distribution partners, reinsurance partners

The benefit of these actions has been evident in and regulators. We have tackled complicated challenges

our performance. Over the past three years, AIG has over the past year and pride ourselves on executing with

averaged over $2 billion annually in underwriting profit the highest quality, no matter the task. I ofen tell my

– a dramatic diference compared to the $33 billion in leadership team that the world is only going to become

underwriting losses incurred from 2008 to 20181,2. We harder to navigate, but we keep getting better at “hard.”

remain relentlessly focused on maintaining Our relentless focus on excellence positions us for a very

this momentum. bright future.

Unprecedented Improvement in Underwriting Profitability1,2

($M)

2008 – 2018 1,806 1,938 1,917

$33B Underwriting Loss 1,048

95

(373)

(683) (730)

(919)

Very Strong and Consistent

Underwriting Proftability

(2,598)

(3,130) (2,987) (2,911)

(4,126)

(4,481)

(5,448) (5,605)

2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024

AIG 2024 Annual Report 1

Peter Zafino (lef); Claude Wade, EVP, Chief Digital Oficer and Global Head of Business

Operations & Claims (center); and Charlie Fry, EVP, Reinsurance and Risk Capital

Optimization (right) join a panel discussion at AIG’s Global Town Hall in December 2024.

“

In an environment that has never been more dynamic

or complex, AIG is at the forefront of originating risk

solutions. The expertise and support we provide enables

businesses, institutions and individuals to overcome

”

uncertainty and withstand challenges.

2 AIG 2024 Annual Report

Industry Insured Losses Nominal ($B)

AIG Share (%)

150 5%

4%

)B$(

lanimoN

sessoL

derusnI

yrtsudnI

100

)%(

erahS

GIA

Outstanding Financial Results committed to reviewing our dividend annually and

anticipate increasing it in 2025 and 2026, subject to

Our 2024 full-year financial results were outstanding, market conditions. Going forward, our key focus remains

demonstrating the successful execution of our strategy on profitable growth and allocating capital to the best

and strength of our balance sheet. We generated opportunities to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns.

excellent underwriting results, meaningful growth

in net premiums written, exceptional new business Managing Volatility: A Strategic

and high retention of our portfolio. We produced an Approach to the New Normal

increase of 9% in net income per diluted share from

continuing operations year over year and an increase AIG’s achievements are even more remarkable when

in adjusted afer-tax income per diluted share2 of 12%, you consider the industry environment we navigated

or 28% on a comparable basis3. Our 2024 net premiums as we transformed our company. Fifeen years ago, the

written totaled $23.9 billion, and we continued to see benchmark for an outsized catastrophe year was $100

momentum in our Global Commercial business with billion. Over the last eight years, industry losses have

high retention rates and record new business of $4.5 averaged $140 billion, with 2024 peaking at $145 billion

billion. Net investment income from our well-diversified, –54% above the 21st-century average4. If the tragic and

liability-matched portfolio increased in 2024, benefiting heartbreaking California wildfires in January of 2025

from our reallocation of assets toward higher-yield reach the estimate of $50 billion in insured losses, and

fixed maturities and loans. Notably, we achieved this 2025 is otherwise an average catastrophe year, carriers’

outcome even as the size of our base portfolio decreased total insured catastrophe losses for the year could

as a result of strategic divestures of non-core assets. approach $200 billion – a level that could recalibrate the

Going forward, our investment strategy will continue to entire insurance industry. We have consistently reduced

focus on reinvesting assets at higher yields, including our volatility despite these elevated catastrophe losses

increasing our asset allocation to private credit at for the industry and AIG’s share of industry catastrophe

attractive spreads. losses dropped from 3% in 2018 to below 1% for the last

three years2,5 – a very impressive result.

We also continued to deliver against our disciplined

capital management strategy, providing AIG with

significant financial flexibility. We returned $8.1 billion Significantly Reduced AIG Catastrophe

of capital to shareholders, including $6.6 billion of Losses as % of Industry Insured Losses

share repurchases reducing our share count by 12%, from Natural Disasters2,5

$1.0 billion of dividends, and $500 million in preferred

stock redemptions. We also reduced our debt by $1.6

billion, bringing our debt-to-capital ratio to 17%. We

ended 2024 with parent liquidity of $7.7 billion, and if

market conditions hold, we are on track to reduce the 145

number of outstanding AIG shares below our target 134 130 132

range of 550-600 million shares by the end of 2025. For 118

the second consecutive year, we increased our common

97 3%

stock dividend by more than 10%, reflecting the Board’s

confidence in our earnings trajectory. 90

71 2%

50

AIG’s balance sheet strength is the result of years of

disciplined work to improve our liquidity, cash flow, 1%

leverage and reserves. We will continue to execute

on our disciplined capital management strategy and 0 0%

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024

do not anticipate taking any additional actions that

would significantly afect leverage in 2025. We remain

AIG 2024 Annual Report 3

AIG colleagues demonstrate the company's

Purpose & Values in action through

volunteerism related to disaster relief,

restoration and resiliency.

AIG’s ability to thrive in today’s new normal of higher the long-term partnership of the industry’s

industry catastrophe losses is reflected in our leading reinsurers.

underwriting performance. Our full-year 2024 General

Insurance combined ratio was 91.8%, the third Superior Claims Service

consecutive year of a sub-92 combined ratio. When

compared to our 2017 General Insurance combined ratio We also are uniquely positioned to help our clients and

of 117.3%, our strong profitability improvement is all the partners navigate through the current environment.

more remarkable. Behind every claim, there is a client in need of support

and a team of AIG experts working with them to solve

Our reinsurance strategy has played a pivotal role in our their challenges. This is when we are needed most, and

journey to establish AIG as an industry-leading global this is what our global network of more than 4,200 Claims

general insurance underwriter and enabled us to professionals does best. With weather events causing

outperform the industry while also amassing the catastrophic damage around the world, our global Claims

significant financial strength and flexibility we have teams are always at the ready, providing exceptional

today. We strategically use reinsurance to preserve and service and insight. Our technical experts across the

optimize capital and enhance the quality of our earnings world bring deep product knowledge and industry

through active management of our underwriting results. acumen to handling the nuances of every claim, drawing

on decades of experience navigating complex risks and

AIG maintains a diferent philosophy regarding thousands of hours of training each year.

reinsurance than many of our peers. Today, many

primary insurance carriers are taking on a greater share We take a proactive approach to underwriting and

of catastrophe losses from reinsurers. In contrast, we claims, identifying emerging trends to help clients avoid

focus on maintaining lower excess of loss attachment threats and manage their exposure long before a claim

points, including meaningful aggregate coverage to occurs. To keep pace with the evolving risk landscape,

manage frequency of loss. During the January 1, 2025 our Claims team provides data and feedback to the

reinsurance renewal season, we maintained or lowered underwriting team regarding exposures, ranging from

our attachment points and improved or maintained our severe weather events to new loss trends. This close

ceding commission levels for all of our major collaboration informs future underwriting strategies and

proportional reinsurance treaties. We are grateful for product development initiatives. We are also increasingly

4 AIG 2024 Annual Report

“ $2+ billion

Our ability to consistently

deliver strong financial

AIG’s average annual underwriting income

results while reshaping our

for three consecutive years

company is a testament

to our colleagues and the

91.8%

relationships they have built

with our clients, distribution

AIG’s third consecutive year of a sub-92

partners, reinsurance

combined ratio

”

partners and regulators.

$8.1 billion

Capital returned to shareholders in 2024

$450 million

Exit run-rate savings achieved in 2024

through AIG Next

22.7%

AIG’s holdings of Corebridge Financial

common stock as of year-end, following

the completion of the deconsolidation

5 AIG 2024 Annual Report AIG 2024 Annual Report 5

deploying the use of GenAI and Large Language Models growth and operating leverage as we deliver them to our

to provide innovative solutions that make our processes businesses at scale and will allow our underwriters to

more rigorous and efective. spend more time quoting and winning business.

I am very proud of our global Claims team and the Maintaining the underwriter at the center of

excellent work they do every day to navigate challenges decision-making will continue to be paramount, and a

with resilience and expertise. key diferentiator, for AIG. Our culture is deeply rooted in

underwriting excellence and technical expertise. We help

our clients and partners solve complex risk issues that

require judgment and a sophisticated understanding of

Unparalleled

their needs. Our GenAI initiatives are designed to deliver

Opportunities Ahead

better outcomes and performance, while keeping highly

experienced underwriters at the core of our process.

This “new normal” underscores the vital importance

of insurance to society, and the uniquely pivotal role In 2024, we announced that we will open an innovation

that AIG plays in our industry. In an environment that hub in Atlanta, which will support our innovation and

has never been more dynamic or complex, AIG is at the operational excellence journey. The hub will be the

forefront of originating risk solutions. The expertise and first AIG ofice globally where the entire end-to-end

support we provide enables businesses, institutions underwriting process will be embedded in a single

and individuals to overcome uncertainty and withstand location – from distribution and sales to data insights,

challenges. Amid profound change, we help clients and underwriting, claims payments, and client servicing. By

partners pursue bold ideas that can shape the future. bringing the entire insurance lifecycle together, we will

Meeting challenges head-on and transforming them into innovate in real time through in-ofice team interactions

opportunities is more than our promise, it’s the essence and collaborations.

of our Purpose.

Driving Innovation in Portfolio Optimization

AIG’s Purpose

Our promise protects against uncertainty and challenges We are also extending our leadership in the reinsurance

and provides the confidence for tomorrow’s opportunities. space with the establishment of a special purpose vehicle

backed by Blackstone through Lloyd’s, Syndicate 2478.

Accelerating Our Growth This pioneering structure is an example of how insurance

risk can be directly connected to sophisticated investors

Our ability to adapt to ever-changing market conditions to generate attractive returns for both parties. The

to meet the evolving needs of our clients and partners is syndicate provides AIG with a long-term, meaningful

one of our trademark attributes, enabling us to deliver on reinsurance partner and an additional source of fee

our Purpose while driving growth. As part of our income. We are pleased to partner on this innovative

innovation journey, we are utilizing GenAI and Large structure with Blackstone.

Language Models as digital accelerators and applications

to support our core business. We are evolving our Our Learn-It-All Culture

end-to-end processes, developing an Agentic GenAI

Ecosystem, driving role clarity, and digitizing and Our ability to deliver innovative global solutions is

modernizing our infrastructure. Our GenAI Ecosystem grounded in having tremendous colleagues with a

can ingest and integrate proprietary data from multiple mindset of continuous learning, curiosity and

sources to give us better data quality, analysis and improvement that fuels our performance-driven client

outputs, in a fraction of the time it formerly would take. focus and leads to the high-quality outcomes and

It is also increasing our submission response rate while decisions for which we are known. A Learn-It-All culture

enabling our underwriters to prioritize the business is at the heart of AIG. Our focus on fostering a workplace

within our risk appetite. These solutions will help drive that reflects the global nature of our business and

6 AIG 2024 Annual Report

“

Amid profound change, we help clients and partners

pursue bold ideas that can shape the future. Meeting

challenges head-on and transforming them into

opportunities is more than our promise,

”

it’s the essence of our Purpose.

Championship winner Lydia Ko accepts her 2024 AIG Women’s Open trophy from Peter Zafino.

7 AIG 2024 Annual Report AIG 2024 Annual Report 7

enables talent from diferent geographies, backgrounds Attracting and retaining top talent is central to our

and experiences to thrive makes us a preferred employer. success. Our leaders are highly accomplished insurance

executives with deep expertise from across the industry.

Our inclusive culture is deeply connected to our global We also provide our top talent with clear pathways to

reach. We work collaboratively around the world with important leadership roles, creating a strong succession

pace and a strong sense of ownership to meet and exceed pipeline to support our long-term growth. In 2024, the

the expectations of our stakeholders. Our international numbers of internal promotions and external hires were

heritage has shaped our distinct perspective on risks, roughly equal, showing our focus on the development

enabling us to uniquely draw on the expertise of of our talent. More than a quarter of our external hiring

colleagues around the globe to add value for our clients activity in 2024 was tied to building out our Atlanta

and distribution partners. innovation hub, welcoming early career analysts

and summer interns, and strategically tapping into

We are focused on developing colleagues at all points in talent pools through apprenticeship and career

their career and providing them with opportunities to returner programs.

build skills and advance. We invest in our people through

comprehensive training programs and ofer immersive Forward We Go

learning experiences focused on critical competencies

such as change management, problem solving, AIG has entered an exciting new chapter. Today, we are

underwriting, claims and operations. Additionally, we a focused global general insurance company with a

prioritize leadership development to build managers’ culture of operational excellence. At a moment when our

self-awareness through assessment tools and equip them industry is facing an increasing array of challenges, we

with the capabilities needed to achieve business goals. are stronger, deeply disciplined, and well positioned for

Colleagues participate in a dialogue with AIG leaders.

8 AIG 2024 Annual Report

“

Our ability to deliver innovative global solutions is

grounded in having tremendous colleagues with a mindset

of continuous learning, curiosity and improvement that fuels

our performance-driven client focus and leads to the high-

quality outcomes and decisions for which we are known. A

”

Learn-It-All culture is at the heart of AIG.

long-term success. Our very early forecast indicates we Forward We Go.

are of to a strong start for 2025 and, barring unforeseen

developments, we expect to achieve meaningful organic Sincerely,

growth driven by our Global Commercial business and

the benefits of our enhanced reinsurance program. Our

disciplined capital management, combined with our

sustained underwriting excellence and continued focus

on expense management, puts us well on track to deliver

a 10%+ core operating ROE for the full year 2025.

Peter Zafino

I would like to express my gratitude to our dedicated Chairman & Chief Executive Oficer

colleagues around the world for their teamwork and American International Group, Inc. (AIG)

contributions on behalf of our stakeholders. I also want

to thank our shareholders for their continued support

and investment in AIG. I firmly believe that past

performance is the best predictor of future success, and

I have never been more optimistic about our ability to

capitalize on the opportunities ahead.

1) Historical underwriting results presented are restated to exclude Validus Re and Crop Risk Services (CRS). For 2015 and prior, the results include Property Casualty run-of businesses,

including excess workers’ compensation, asbestos and environmental (1986 and prior), certain environmental liability businesses, certain healthcare coverage, certain casualty and

specialty coverages reported in Eaglestone Reinsurance Company, and certain long-duration business, primarily in Japan and the U.S.

2) Refers to financial measures not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (non-GAAP); definitions of non-GAAP measures can be found on page 39 of

the 2024 Form 10-K and page 216 of this Annual Report. The reconciliations to their closest GAAP measures can be found on pages 51-52 of the 2024 Form 10-K and page 217 of this

Annual Report.

3) Refers to comparable basis. Refer to page 217 of this Annual Report for more detail.

4) Aon. 2025 Climate and Catastrophe Risk Insight, January 22, 2025.

5) Historical CAT losses presented are restated to exclude Validus Re and CRS. Industry insured losses are sourced from Aon reports and reflect reported losses at the time of publication,

without adjustment for inflation; 2020 insured loss data for both the industry and AIG exclude COVID-19 losses.

AIG 2024 Annual Report 9

AIG’s Purpose & Values

Our promise protects against

uncertainty and challenges

and provides the confidence

for tomorrow’s opportunities.

Our Values and how we

bring them to life:

Take Ownership

We set clear expectations

We are proactive

We are accountable

Set the Standard

We deliver quality—always

We are client-centric

We lead the industry

Win Together

We are stronger together

We are aligned

We are one team

Be an Ally

We strive for inclusion

We listen and learn

We speak with our actions

Do What’s Right

We act with integrity

We lead by example

We lif up our communities

10 AIG 2024 Annual Report

Board of Directors

Standing, from lef: James (Jimmy) Dunne III; Linda A. Mills; John (Chris) Inglis; Peter R. Porrino; Vanessa A. Wittman; Courtney Leimkuhler

Seated, from lef: Diana M. Murphy; Paola Bergamaschi; John G. Rice; Peter Zafino; James Cole, Jr.

Not pictured: Juan Perez

Peter Zafino Linda A. Mills

Chairman & Chief Executive Oficer, AIG President, Cadore Group, LLC; Former Corporate Vice President of

Operations, Northrop Grumman Corporation

Paola Bergamaschi

Former Global Banking and Capital Markets Executive at Diana M. Murphy

State Street Corporation, Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs Managing Director, Rocksolid Holdings, LLC

James Cole, Jr. Juan Perez

Chairman & Chief Executive Oficer, The Jasco Group, LLC; Executive Vice President and Chief Information Oficer,

Former Delegated Deputy Secretary of Education and Salesforce.com, Inc.

General Counsel, U.S. Department of Education

Peter R. Porrino

James (Jimmy) Dunne III Former Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Oficer,

Vice Chairman and Senior Managing Principal, Piper Sandler XL Group Ltd

John (Chris) Inglis John G. Rice

Senior Strategic Advisor, Paladin Capital Group; Lead Independent Director, AIG; Former Non-Executive Chairman,

Former National Cyber Director GE Gas Power; Former President & Chief Executive Oficer,

GE Global Growth Organization

Courtney Leimkuhler

Co-founder and Managing Partner, Springbank Collective Vanessa A. Wittman

Former Chief Financial Oficer, Glossier, Inc.

11 AIG 2024 Annual Report AIG 2024 Annual Report 11

Executive Leadership Team

Standing, from lef: Mia Tarpey; Keith Walsh; Christopher Flatt; Peter Zafino; Rose Marie Glazer; Chris Schaper; Ed Dandridge

Seated, from lef: Melissa Twiningdavis; Roshan Navagamuwa; Don Bailey; Claude Wade; Jon Hancock; Kelly Lafnitzegger; Charlie Fry

Peter Zafino Kelly Lafnitzegger

Chairman & Chief Executive Oficer EVP, Chief Human Resources Oficer

Don Bailey Roshan Navagamuwa

EVP, Chief Executive Oficer, North America Commercial Insurance EVP, Chief Information Oficer

Ed Dandridge Chris Schaper

EVP, Chief Marketing & Communications Oficer EVP, Chief Risk Oficer

Christopher Flatt Mia Tarpey

EVP, Global Chief Underwriting Oficer Chief of Staf to AIG Chairman & CEO Peter Zafino

Charlie Fry Melissa Twiningdavis

EVP, Reinsurance and Risk Capital Optimization EVP, Chief Administrative Oficer

Rose Marie Glazer Claude Wade

EVP, General Counsel EVP, Chief Digital Oficer and Global Head of Business

Operations & Claims

Jon Hancock

EVP, Chief Executive Oficer, International Commercial Keith Walsh

Insurance and Global Personal Insurance EVP, Chief Financial Oficer

12 AIG 2024 Annual Report

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

——————————

FORM 10-K

☑ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024

OR

☐ TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from to

Commission File Number 1-8787

American International Group, Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware 13-2592361

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

1271 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10020

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (212) 770-7000

——————————

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class Trading Symbol Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, Par Value $2.50 Per Share AIG New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

——————————

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☑ No ☐

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☑

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing

requirements for the past 90 days. Yes ☑ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of

Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit such

files). Yes ☑ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an

emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth

company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer ☑ Accelerated filer ☐

Non-accelerated filer ☐ Smaller reporting company ☐

Emerging growth company ☐

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new

or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal

control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that

prepared or issued its audit report. ☑

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the

filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation

received by any of the registrant's executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes ☐ No ☑

As of June 30, 2024, the aggregate market value of the registrant's voting and nonvoting common equity held by nonaffiliates was approximately

$42,903,000,000.

As of February 7, 2025, 593,332,964 shares of the registrant's Common Stock, $2.50 par value per share, were outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Document of the Registrant Form 10-K Reference Locations

Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for the 2025 Annual Meeting of Shareholders Part III, Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14

This page intentionally left blank.

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2024

TABLE OF CONTENTS

FORM 10-K

Item Number Description Page

Part I

ITEM 1 Business 2

• Our Global Business Overview 2

• Operating Structure 4

• How We Generate Revenues and Profitability 4

• Human Capital Management 5

• Regulation 6

• Available Information about AIG 11

ITEM 1A Risk Factors 12

ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 30

ITEM 1C Cybersecurity 31

ITEM 2 Properties 32

ITEM 3 Legal Proceedings 32

ITEM 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 32

Part II

ITEM 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity

Securities 33

ITEM 6 [Reserved] 34

ITEM 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 35

• Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results 35

• Use of Non-GAAP Measures 38

• Critical Accounting Estimates 40

• Executive Summary 47

• Consolidated Results of Operations 48

• Business Segment Operations 53

• Investments 62

• Insurance Reserves 70

• Liquidity and Capital Resources 74

• Enterprise Risk Management 81

• Glossary 88

• Acronyms 90

ITEM 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 90

ITEM 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 91

Reference to Financial Statements and Schedules 91

ITEM 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 191

ITEM 9A Controls and Procedures 191

ITEM 9B Other Information 192

ITEM 9C Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 192

Part III

ITEM 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 193

ITEM 11 Executive Compensation 194

ITEM 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 194

ITEM 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 194

ITEM 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 194

Part IV

ITEM 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 195

ITEM 16 Form 10-K Summary 197

Signatures 198

AIG | 2024 Form 10-K 1

Part I

ITEM 1 | Business

Sustaining Industry Creating Value through

Leadership Momentum Profitable Growth and a

Culture of Underwriting and

Operational Excellence

American International Group, Inc. (NYSE: AIG)

is a leading global insurance organization. AIG provides insurance solutions that help

businesses and individuals in over 200 countries and jurisdictions protect their assets and

manage risks through AIG operations, licenses and authorizations as well as network partners.

AIG is building on its industry leadership and is positioned to become a top-performing

company recognized for the value it provides stakeholders in an environment of profound,

complex and dynamic risk. AIG's achievements in 2024 demonstrate continued strength in

executing multiple, complex initiatives simultaneously and with quality. With the

deconsolidation of Corebridge Financial, Inc. (Corebridge) complete, a strong underwriting

portfolio and culture, and excellent financial strength, AIG enters 2025 with strong momentum.

In this Annual Report, unless otherwise mentioned or unless the context indicates otherwise, we use the terms “AIG,” the “Company,”

“we,” “us” and “our” to refer to American International Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. We use

the term “AIG Parent” to refer solely to American International Group, Inc., and not to any of its consolidated subsidiaries.

About AIG

World-Class Underwriting and Global Reach and Breadth of Loyal Broad and Long-Standing

Claims Expertise Customers Distribution Relationships

executed through franchises that are including millions of clients in over 200 with brokers, agents, advisors,

among the leaders in their geographies countries and jurisdictions, ranging from marketplaces and other distributors

and segments, providing differentiated individuals to small and medium-sized strengthened through AIG’s dedication to

service. businesses to multi-national Fortune 500 quality.

companies.

Global Workforce Balance Sheet Strength and Financial Flexibility

of more than 22,000 colleagues committed to taking ownership, with approximately $43 billion in shareholders’ equity and AIG

setting the standard, winning together, being allies and doing Parent liquidity sources of $10.7 billion as of December 31,

what's right. 2024.

2 AIG | 2024 Form 10-K

ITEM 1 | Business

AIG's global team is both results oriented and focused on how we achieve positive outcomes. This balance creates an aligned and

inclusive culture that enables further progress. Unifying under our Purpose and Values empowers AIG colleagues to be conduits of

positive change – delivering exceptional client service, enhanced shareholder value and a better experience for all stakeholders.

AIG’s five Values guide colleagues' actions:

• Take ownership: we set clear expectations, we are proactive, we are accountable

• Set the standard: we deliver quality—always, we are client-centric, we lead the industry

• Win together: we are stronger together, we are aligned, we are one team

• Be an ally: we strive for inclusion, we listen and learn, we speak with our actions

• Do what’s right: we act with integrity, we lead by example, we lift up our communities

2025 Priorities

Deliver Sustainable Underwriting Results and Profitability Growth -Continue to focus on a culture of underwriting

excellence and prudent expense management to support profitable growth.

Unlock the Full Potential of AIG’s Less Complex Operating Structure -Continue to refine our new operating structure to

operate efficiently as a lean, agile and high-performing company.

Invest in our Talent for the Future AIG -Foster a performance-driven culture built on quality, excellence and continuous

improvement through ongoing education and workplace learning opportunities.

Expand our Data and Digital Strategies -Responsibly scale the use of generative artificial intelligence (AI), focus on continued

enhancement of data quality to inform decision making and further strengthen workflow capabilities across the company to accelerate

our strategic business objectives.

Preserve and Harness Balance Sheet Strength and Financial Flexibility -Execute on our balanced capital management

plan in order to deliver shareholder value and support AIG's strategic flexibility.

2024 Highlights

Delivered Strong Financial Performance Driven by Underwriting Excellence

• Produced strong combined ratio of 91.8 and accident year combined ratio, as adjusted(a) of 88.2.

• Delivered $1.9 billion of underwriting income, which contributed to over $7 billion of cumulative underwriting income 2021-2024.

• Generated net premiums written of $23.9 billion, supported by new business growth, strong retention and rate discipline.

• Achieved 23 percent Net investment income growth year-over-year.

• Expanded capabilities in the non-admitted ultra and high-net-worth market through exclusive wholesale distribution partnership

between Private Client Select (PCS) and Ryan Specialty.

Completed Multi-Year Strategies to Direct Focus to AIG’s Core Businesses

• Deconsolidated Corebridge from AIG and reduced AIG’s ownership of Corebridge common stock to 22.7 percent as of

December 31, 2024 for aggregate gross proceeds of $6.0 billion through various sale transactions.

• Divested global individual personal travel insurance and assistance business for $600 million plus additional earn-out

consideration, further enhancing AIG’s financial flexibility and sculpting our portfolio of businesses.

• Led the launch of Lloyd’s syndicate 2478 through multi-year Blackstone Inc. strategic relationship as part of AIG’s outwards

reinsurance program.

Continued Balanced Capital Management Supporting Financial Strength, Growth and Shareholder Return

• Reduced general borrowings by $1.6 billion, which resulted in a debt-to-capital ratio of 17.0 percent.

• Repurchased $6.6 billion of AIG common stock, reducing outstanding shares by 12 percent.

• Paid $1.0 billion in AIG common stock dividends and increased quarterly common stock dividend amount by double digit

percentage for the second consecutive year.

• Ended 2024 with parent liquidity of $7.7 billion.

(a) Non-GAAP measure – for reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measure, see Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results

of Operations (MD&A).

AIG | 2024 Form 10-K 3

ITEM 1 | Business

Operating Structure

In the fourth quarter of 2024, the Company realigned its organizational structure and the composition of its reportable segments to

reflect changes in how the Company manages its operations, specifically the level at which its chief operating decision makers

(CODMs) regularly review operating results and allocate resources.

As of December 31, 2024, AIG reports the results of its businesses through three segments and Other Operations. The three

segments are North America Commercial, International Commercial and Global Personal. Other Operations predominantly consists of

Net Investment Income from our AIG Parent liquidity portfolio, Corebridge dividend income, corporate General operating expenses,

and Interest expense. Prior years’ presentations have been recast to conform to the new reportable segments. Our General Insurance

business (General Insurance) consists of our three segments and the Net investment income related to our insurance operations.

In September 2022, AIG closed on the initial public offering of Corebridge. Since then and through June 9, 2024, AIG has sold

portions of its interests in Corebridge through secondary public offerings. On June 9, 2024, AIG held 48.4 percent of Corebridge

common stock, waived its right to majority representation on the Corebridge Board of Directors and one of AIG's designees resigned

from the Corebridge Board of Directors as of June 9, 2024 (the Deconsolidation Date). As a result, AIG met the requirements for the

deconsolidation of Corebridge. The historical financial results of Corebridge, for all periods presented, are reflected in these

Consolidated Financial Statements as discontinued operations.

For additional information on our segments, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Business Segment Operations and Note 3 to the

Consolidated Financial Statements, and for information regarding the separation of Life and Retirement and our global individual

personal travel insurance and assistance business, see Notes 1 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

General Insurance

General Insurance is a leading provider of insurance products and services for commercial and personal insurance customers. It includes one

of the world’s most far-reaching property casualty networks. General Insurance offers a broad range of products to customers through a

diversified, multichannel distribution network. Customers value General Insurance’s strong capital position, extensive risk management and

claims experience and its ability to be a market leader in critical lines of the insurance business.

North America International Global

Commercial Commercial Personal

General Insurance includes the following major operating companies: National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa. (National

Union); American Home Assurance Company (American Home); Lexington Insurance Company (Lexington); AIG General Insurance Company,

Ltd.; AIG Asia Pacific Insurance, Pte, Ltd.; AIG Europe S.A.; American International Group UK Ltd.; Talbot Underwriting Ltd. (Talbot); Western

World Insurance Company and Glatfelter Insurance Group (Glatfelter).

How We Generate Revenues and Profitability

We earn revenues primarily from insurance premiums and income from investments.

Our expenses consist of losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred, commissions and other costs of selling and servicing our

products, interest expense and general operating expenses.

Our profitability is dependent on our ability to properly price and manage risk on insurance products, including establishing loss

reserves, to manage our portfolio of investments effectively and to control costs through expense discipline.

For additional information on loss reserves and prior year loss development, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting

Estimates – Loss Reserves, Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Insurance Reserves – Liability for Unpaid Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses

(Loss Reserves), and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For additional information on investment strategies, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Investments – Investment Strategies.

4 AIG | 2024 Form 10-K

ITEM 1 | Business

Human Capital Management

Our talented and dedicated colleagues are our greatest asset and support our culture of underwriting expertise and excellence. To this

end, we place significant focus on human capital management; namely retaining, developing and attracting high caliber talent.

Our Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (CMRC) is responsible for overseeing human

capital management practices and programs, including retention, talent development and compensation and benefits. Management

periodically reports to the CMRC on our various human capital management initiatives and metrics, including succession planning for

key roles.

At December 31, 2024, we had approximately 22,200 employees based in approximately 46 countries, of which 47 percent are

located in North America, 26 percent are in the Asia Pacific region and the remaining 27 percent are in the European, Middle East and

Africa (EMEA region) and Latin America.

We believe that we foster a constructive and healthy work environment for our employees. The key programs and initiatives that are

designed to attract, develop and retain our workforce include:

Competitive Compensation and Benefits. We seek to align compensation with individual and Company performance and provide

the appropriate market-competitive incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees to achieve outstanding results.

Management and the CMRC engage the services of third-party compensation consultants to help monitor the competitiveness of our

incentive programs. We provide a performance-driven compensation structure that consists of base salary and, for eligible

employees, short- and long-term incentives. We also offer comprehensive benefits to support the health, wellness, work-life balance

and retirement preparedness/savings needs of our employees, including, for eligible employees, subsidized health care plans, life and

disability insurance, wellness and mental health benefits, legal assistance plan, paid time off, 16 hours of paid volunteer time off, 2:1

matching grants for eligible charitable donations, parental and bonding leave and both matching and Company 401(k) contributions

for eligible employees.

Health and Wellness. The health, safety and wellness of our employees is a priority. We offer numerous benefits and wellness

programs focused on the physical, social and financial wellness of our employees. Nearly every country in which we operate has an

Employee Assistance Program (EAP), which provides employees with confidential counselling, mental health resources and

information to help employees and their dependents through times of stress and anxiety. In many countries where local market and

regulations permit, our EAP and other programs also offer work-life balance assistance, eldercare advice, bereavement support, and

legal and financial guidance.

We also maintain the AIG Compassionate Colleagues Fund (the Fund), which enables the Company and its employees to provide

direct relief to help eligible colleagues overcome unforeseen financial hardships and disasters. Since its inception in 2021, the Fund

has helped approximately 2,500 employees in 17 countries.

Talent Development. Equipping our people with the skills and capabilities to be successful and contribute to AIG is another priority.

We do this by giving our employees access to meaningful tools and resources to assist in their professional development no matter

where they are in their career paths.

We offer numerous learning opportunities to support the development of our employees. All online learning programs are accessible

through a global learning management system, Your Learning Journey. Through these programs, employees can increase their

insurance and business knowledge, build critical job skills and earn continuing education credits.

Alongside online courses, we offer a series of live, interactive learning opportunities designed to reinforce our culture of excellence.

These programs focus on providing employees with a strong foundation of core skills including communication, collaboration,

coaching, change agility and problem solving. In addition to live courses and online training, we also offer tuition and certification

training reimbursement to encourage employees to enhance their education and skills.

Additionally, we focus on building managerial capability for people managers through a series of interactive learning experiences

focused on skills needed to lead teams effectively and achieve business priorities. To assess leadership skills and capabilities, we use

distinct leadership assessment tools, including 360 degree feedback, which develops self-awareness and builds personalized

leadership development goals.

We also place significant importance on promoting internal talent and succession planning. Accordingly, we use a globally consistent

streamlined process to support succession planning and talent development. This approach helps identify a pipeline of talent for

positions at all levels of the organization and the actions needed to support their development. In 2024, 39 percent of all our open

positions were filled with internal talent.

AIG | 2024 Form 10-K 5

ITEM 1 | Business

Culture of Inclusion. We strive to create an inclusive workplace that provides equal opportunities for all colleagues. We believe in

building a culture where everyone is valued and where all perspectives are welcome.

Regulation

GENERAL

Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which our insurance businesses

are located or operate. Insurance regulatory authorities in those jurisdictions are the primary regulators for those businesses;

however, our operations are subject to regulation by many different types of regulatory authorities, including insurance, securities and

derivatives regulators in the United States and abroad.

Insurance regulators, other regulatory authorities, law enforcement agencies, and other governmental authorities from time to time

make inquiries and conduct examinations or investigations regarding our compliance, as well as compliance by other companies in

our industry, with applicable laws. In addition, regulation, legislation and administrative policies that are not limited in application solely

to the insurance market may significantly affect the insurance industry and certain of our operations, including regulation, legislation

and administrative policies related to privacy, cybersecurity, government sanctions, anti-discrimination, financial services, securities,

taxation and climate change. See Item 1A. Risk Factors – Regulation – "Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in laws

and regulations may affect our operations, increase our insurance subsidiary capital requirements or reduce our profitability".

We expect that the U.S. and international regulations applicable 

[Content truncated due to length...]