Table of Contents

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the year ended December 31, 2023

Commission File Number 1-11758

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware 1585 Broadway 36-3145972 (212) 761-4000

(State or other jurisdiction of New York, NY 10036 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) (Registrant’s telephone number,

incorporation or organization) including area code)

(Address of principal executive offices,

including Zip Code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Trading Name of exchange on

Title of each class Symbol(s) which registered

Common Stock, $0.01 par value MS New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of Floating Rate

Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, $0.01 par value MS/PA New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of Fixed-to-Floating Rate

Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, $0.01 par value MS/PE New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of Fixed-to-Floating Rate

Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, $0.01 par value MS/PF New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of Fixed-to-Floating Rate

Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, $0.01 par value MS/PI New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of Fixed-to-Floating Rate

Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, $0.01 par value MS/PK New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of 4.875%

Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series L, $0.01 par value MS/PL New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of 4.250%

Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series O, $0.01 par value MS/PO New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of 6.500%

Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series P, $0.01 par value MS/PP New York Stock Exchange

Global Medium-Term Notes, Series A, Fixed Rate Step-Up Senior Notes Due 2026

of Morgan Stanley Finance LLC (and Registrant’s guarantee with respect thereto) MS/26C New York Stock Exchange

Global Medium-Term Notes, Series A, Floating Rate Notes Due 2029

of Morgan Stanley Finance LLC (and Registrant’s guarantee with respect thereto) MS/29 New York Stock Exchange

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes ☐ No ☒

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ No ☒

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the

preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past

90 days. Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation

S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to submit such files). Yes ☒ No ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company or an emerging

growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of

the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated filer ☒ Accelerated filer ☐ Non-accelerated filer ☐ Smaller reporting company ☐ Emerging growth company ☐

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the Registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised

financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over

financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit

report. ☒

If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the Registrant included in the filing

reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. ☐

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of

the Registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act ). Yes ☐ No ☒

As of June 30, 2023, the aggregate market value of the common stock of the Registrant held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $136,317,364,533.

This calculation does not reflect a determination that persons are affiliates for any other purposes.

As of January 31, 2024, there were 1,635,268,297 shares of the Registrant’s common stock, $0.01 par value, outstanding.

Documents Incorporated by Reference: Portions of the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement for its 2024 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated by

reference in Part III of this Form 10-K.

Table of Contents

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

For the year ended December 31, 2023

Table of Contents Part Item Page Table of Contents Part Item Page

6. Derivative Instruments and Hedging

Business I 1 5 Activities 108

Overview 5 7. Investment Securities 112

Business Segments 5 8. Collateralized Transactions 113

Competition 5 9. Loans, Lending Commitments and Related

Allowance for Credit Losses 116

Supervision and Regulation 6

10. Goodwill and Intangible Assets 119

Human Capital 10

11. Other Assets—Equity Method

Information about our Executive Officers 12 Investments and Leases 120

Risk Factors 1A 13 12. Deposits 121

Cybersecurity 1C 26 13. Borrowings and Other Secured

Financings 121

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of 14. Commitments, Guarantees and

Financial Condition and Results of Contingencies 123

Operations II 7 28

15. Variable Interest Entities and

Introduction 28 Securitization Activities 129

Executive Summary 29 16. Regulatory Requirements 133

Business Segments 33 17. Total Equity 136

Institutional Securities 37 18. Interest Income and Interest Expense 139

Wealth Management 39 19. Deferred Compensation Plans and

Carried Interest Compensation 139

Investment Management 42

20. Employee Benefit Plans 141

Supplemental Financial Information 44

21. Income Taxes 144

Other Matters 44

22. Segment, Geographic and Revenue

Accounting Development Updates 45 Information 145

Critical Accounting Estimates 46 23. Parent Company 147

Liquidity and Capital Resources 48 Financial Data Supplement (Unaudited) 150

Balance Sheet 49 Glossary of Common Terms and Acronyms 153

Changes in and Disagreements with

Regulatory Requirements 53

Accountants on Accounting and Financial

Disclosure 9 154

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures

about Risk 7A 61 Controls and Procedures 9A 154

Risk Management 61 Other Information 9B 156

Market Risk 64 Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions

that Prevent Inspections 9C 156

Credit Risk 68

Unresolved Staff Comments I 1B 156

Country and Other Risks 75

Properties 2 156

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 8 80

Legal Proceedings 3 156

Report of Independent Registered Public

Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID No. 34) 80 Mine Safety Disclosures 4 156

Consolidated Income Statement 82 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity,

Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer

Consolidated Comprehensive Income

Purchases of Equity Securities II 5 156

Statement 82

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate

Consolidated Balance Sheet 83 Governance III 10 157

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Total

Executive Compensation 11 157

Equity 84

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 85 Owners and Management and Related

Stockholder Matters 12 157

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 86

Certain Relationships and Related

1. Introduction and Basis of Presentation 86 Transactions and Director Independence 13 157

2. Significant Accounting Policies 87 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 14 157

3. Cash and Cash Equivalents 97 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules IV 15 157

4. Fair Values 97 Form 10-K Summary 16 160

5. Fair Value Option 107 Signatures 161

2

Table of Contents

Forward-Looking Statements

We have included in or incorporated by reference into this report, and from time to time may make in our public filings, press releases or

other public statements, certain statements, including, without limitation, those under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of

Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Risk” and “Legal Proceedings” that

may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform

Act of 1995. In addition, our management may make forward-looking statements to analysts, investors, representatives of the media and

others. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts and represent only our beliefs regarding future events, many of which,

by their nature, are inherently uncertain and beyond our control.

The nature of our business makes predicting the future trends of our revenues, expenses and net income difficult. The risks and

uncertainties involved in our businesses could affect the matters referred to in such statements, and it is possible that our actual results

may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could

cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements include, without limitation:

• the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, currency, credit and commodities markets, including

corporate, commercial and residential mortgage lending, real estate and energy markets;

• the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level and mix of client assets;

• the flow of investment capital into or from AUM;

• the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices, interest rates, inflation and currency values, other market indices

or other market factors, such as market liquidity;

• the availability and cost of both credit and capital, as well as the credit ratings assigned to our unsecured short-term and long-term

debt;

• technological changes instituted by us, our competitors or counterparties, and technological risks, including risks associated with

emerging technologies, business continuity and related operational risks, including breaches or other disruptions of our or a third

party’s (or third-parties thereof) operations or systems;

• risk associated with cybersecurity threats, including data protection and cybersecurity risk management;

• our ability to effectively manage our capital and liquidity, including under stress tests designed by our banking regulators;

• the impact of current, pending and future legislation or changes thereto, regulation (including capital, leverage, funding, liquidity,

consumer protection, and recovery and resolution requirements) and our ability to address such requirements;

• uncertainty concerning fiscal or monetary policies established by central banks and financial regulators, government shutdowns, debt

ceilings or funding;

• changes to global trade policies, tariffs and replacement or reform of certain interest rate benchmarks;

• legal and regulatory actions, including litigation and enforcement, and other non-financial risks in the U.S. and worldwide;

• changes in tax laws and regulations globally;

• the effectiveness of our risk management processes and related controls, including climate risk;

• our ability to effectively respond to an economic downturn, or other market disruptions;

• the effect of social, economic, and political conditions and geopolitical events, including as a result of government shutdowns, changes

in U.S. presidential administrations or Congress, sovereign risk, acts of war or aggression, and terrorist activities or military actions;

• the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors, as well as governments, central banks, regulators and self-regulatory

organizations;

• our ability to provide innovative products and services and execute our strategic initiatives, and costs related thereto, including with

respect to the operational or technological integration related to such innovative and strategic initiatives;

• the performance and results of our acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, partnerships, minority stakes or strategic alliances, or other

strategic arrangements and related integrations;

• investor, consumer and business sentiment and confidence in the financial markets;

• our reputation and the general perception of the financial services industry;

• our ability to retain, integrate and attract qualified employees or successfully transition key roles;

• climate-related incidents, other environmental and sustainability matters, and global pandemics; and

• other risks and uncertainties detailed under “Business—Competition,” “Business—Supervision and Regulation,” “Risk Factors” and

elsewhere throughout this report.

Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which

they are made. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of

circumstances or events that arise after the dates they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise,

except as required by applicable law. You should, however, consult further disclosures we may make in future filings of our annual

reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereto or in future press

releases or other public statements.

3

Table of Contents

Available Information

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange

Commission (“SEC”). The SEC maintains a website, www.sec.gov, that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and

information statements, and other information that issuers file electronically with the SEC. Our electronic SEC filings are

available to the public at the SEC’s website.

Our website is www.morganstanley.com. You can access our Investor Relations webpage at www.morganstanley.com/about-us-ir.

We make available free of charge, on or through our Investor Relations webpage, our proxy statements, annual reports on Form

10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished

pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after such

material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We also make available, through our Investor Relations webpage,

via a link to the SEC’s website, statements of beneficial ownership of our equity securities filed by our directors, officers, 10% or

greater shareholders and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.

You can access information about our corporate governance at www.morganstanley.com/about-us-governance, our sustainability

initiatives at www.morganstanley.com/about-us/sustainability-at-morgan-stanley, and our commitment to diversity and inclusion

at www.morganstanley.com/about-us/diversity. Our webpages include:

• Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation;

• Amended and Restated Bylaws;

• Charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee, Governance and

Sustainability Committee, Operations and Technology Committee, and Risk Committee;

• Corporate Governance Policies;

• Policy Regarding Corporate Political Activities;

• Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Plan;

• Equity Ownership Commitment;

• Code of Ethics and Business Conduct;

• Code of Conduct;

• Integrity Hotline Information;

• Environmental and Social Policies; and

• 2022 ESG Report: Diversity & Inclusion, Climate, and Sustainability.

Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including our Chief Executive Officer,

Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Chief Financial Officer. We will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business

Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange LLC

(“NYSE”) on our website. You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, at no cost, by contacting Investor

Relations, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036 (212-761-4000). The information on our website is not incorporated by

reference into this report.

4

Table of Contents

Business position also depends substantially on our ability to continue

to attract and retain highly qualified employees while

Overview managing compensation and other costs. We compete with

commercial banks, investment banking firms, brokerage

We are a global financial services firm that, through our firms, insurance companies, exchanges, electronic trading and

subsidiaries and affiliates, advises, and originates, trades, clearing platforms, financial data repositories, investment

manages and distributes capital for governments, institutions advisers and sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, real

and individuals. We were originally incorporated under the assets funds and private credit and equity funds, energy

laws of the State of Delaware in 1981, and our predecessor companies, financial technology firms and other companies

companies date back to 1924. We are a financial holding offering financial and ancillary services in the U.S. and

company (“FHC”) regulated by the Board of Governors of the globally, including, in certain instances, through the internet.

Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”) under the Bank In addition, restrictive laws and regulations applicable to

Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHC Act”). certain global financial services institutions, which have been

We conduct our business from our headquarters in and around increasing in complexity and volume, may prohibit us from

New York City, our regional offices and branches throughout engaging in certain transactions, impose more stringent

the U.S. and our principal offices in London, Frankfurt, capital and liquidity requirements, and increase costs, and can

Tokyo, Hong Kong and other world financial centers. Unless put us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors in certain

the context otherwise requires, the terms “Morgan Stanley,” businesses not subject to these same requirements. See also

the “Firm,” “us,” “we” and “our” mean Morgan Stanley (the “Supervision and Regulation” herein and “Risk Factors.”

“Parent Company”) together with its consolidated

subsidiaries. See the “Glossary of Common Terms and We compete directly in the U.S. and globally with other

Acronyms” for the definition of certain terms and acronyms securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers and

used throughout the 2023 Form 10-K. with others on a regional or product basis. Additionally, there

is increased competition driven by established firms and asset

Financial information concerning us, our business segments managers, as well as the emergence of new firms, non-

and geographic regions for each of the years ended December financial companies and business models, including

31, 2023, December 31, 2022, and December 31, 2021 is innovative uses of technology, competing for the same clients

included in “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” and assets, or offering similar products and services to retail

and institutional customers. We also compete with companies

Business Segments

that provide online trading and banking services, investment

advisory services, robo-advice capabilities, access to digital

We are a global financial services firm that maintains

asset capabilities and services, and other financial products

significant market positions in each of our business segments:

and services.

Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment

Management. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we

Our ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is

provide a wide variety of products and services to a large and

generally impacted by, among other things, our credit spreads

diversified group of clients and customers, including

and ratings) and to commit and deploy capital efficiently,

corporations, governments, financial institutions and

particularly in our more capital-intensive businesses,

individuals. Additional information related to our business

including underwriting and sales, trading, financing and

segments, respective clients, and products and services

market-making activities, also affects our competitive

provided is included under “Management’s Discussion and

position. We expect clients to continue to request that we

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

provide loans or lending commitments in connection with

certain investment banking activities.

Competition

It is possible that competition may become even more intense

All aspects of our businesses are highly competitive, and we

as we continue to compete with financial or other institutions

expect them to remain so. We compete in the U.S. and

that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a

globally for clients, market share and human talent. Operating

stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain

within the financial services industry on a global basis

geographies or products. Many of these firms have the ability

presents, among other things, technological, risk management,

to offer a wide range of products and services through

regulatory, infrastructure and other challenges that require

different platforms that may enhance their competitive

effective resource allocation in order for us to remain

position and could result in additional pricing pressure on our

competitive. Our competitive position depends on a number

businesses.

of factors, including our reputation, client experience, the

quality and consistency of our long-term investment

We continue to experience price competition in some of our

performance, innovation, execution, relative pricing and other

businesses. In particular, the ability to execute securities,

factors, including entering into new or expanding current

derivatives and other financial instrument trades electronically

businesses as a result of acquisitions and other strategic

on exchanges, swap execution facilities and other automated

initiatives. Our ability to sustain or improve our competitive

trading platforms, and the introduction and application of new

5 December 2023 Form 10-K

Table of Contents

technologies will likely continue the pressure on our Scope of Permitted Activities. The BHC Act limits the

revenues. The trend toward direct access to automated, activities of BHCs and FHCs and grants the Federal Reserve

electronic markets will likely continue as additional markets authority to limit our ability to conduct activities. We must

move to more automated trading platforms. We have obtain the Federal Reserve’s approval before engaging in

experienced and will likely continue to experience certain banking and other financial activities both in the U.S.

competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future. and internationally.

Our ability to compete successfully in the investment The BHC Act grandfathers “activities related to the trading,

management industry is affected by several factors, including sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical

our reputation, quality of investment professionals, properties,” provided that we were engaged in “any of such

performance of investment strategies or product offerings activities as of September 30, 1997 in the U.S.” and provided

relative to peers and appropriate benchmark indices, that certain other conditions that are within our reasonable

advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the control are satisfied. We currently engage in our commodities

effectiveness of and access to distribution channels and activities pursuant to the BHC Act grandfather exemption, as

investment pipelines, the types of products offered, and well as other authorities under the BHC Act.

regulatory restrictions specific to FHCs. Our investment

products, including alternative investment products, may Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule. The Volcker

compete with investments offered by other investment Rule prohibits banking entities, including us and our affiliates,

managers, including by investment managers who may be from engaging in certain proprietary trading activities, as

subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than us. defined in the Volcker Rule, subject to exemptions for

underwriting, market-making, risk-mitigating hedging and

Supervision and Regulation certain other activities. The Volcker Rule also prohibits

certain investments and relationships by banking entities with

As a major financial services firm, we are subject to extensive covered funds, as defined in the Volcker Rule, subject to a

regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and number of exemptions and exclusions.

securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each

of the major markets where we conduct our business. Capital Requirements. The Federal Reserve establishes

capital requirements largely based on the Basel III capital

We continue to monitor the changing political, tax and standards established by the Basel Committee on Banking

regulatory environment. While it is likely that there will be Supervision (“Basel Committee”), including well-capitalized

changes in the way major financial institutions are regulated standards, for large BHCs and evaluates our compliance with

in both the U.S. and other markets in which we operate, it such requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the

remains difficult to predict the exact impact these changes Currency (“OCC”) establishes similar capital requirements

will have on our business, financial condition, results of and standards for Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. (“MSBNA”)

operations and cash flows for a particular future period. We and Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association

expect to remain subject to extensive supervision and (“MSPBNA”) (together, our “U.S. Bank Subsidiaries”).

regulation.

The Federal Reserve, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

Financial Holding Company (“FDIC”) and the OCC (collectively, “U.S. banking

agencies”) have proposed a comprehensive set of revisions to

Consolidated Supervision. We operate as a bank holding

their capital requirements based on changes to the Basel III

company (“BHC”) and FHC under the BHC Act and are

capital standards finalized by the Basel Committee. The

subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation

impact on us of any revisions to the capital requirements is

and examination by the Federal Reserve. In particular, we are

uncertain and depends on the adoption of final rulemakings

subject to (among other things): significant regulation and

by the U.S. banking agencies. For additional information, see

supervision; intensive scrutiny of our businesses and plans for

“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial

expansion of those businesses; limitations on activities; a

Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital

systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and

Resources—Regulatory Requirements—Regulatory

liquidity requirements; restrictions on activities and

Developments and Other Matters—Basel III Endgame

investments imposed by a section of the BHC Act added by

Proposal.”

the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection

Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) referred to as the “Volcker Rule,” In addition, many of our regulated subsidiaries are subject to

and comprehensive derivatives regulation. In addition, the regulatory capital requirements, including regulated

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) has primary subsidiaries registered as swap dealers with the U.S.

rulemaking, enforcement and examination authority over us Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) or

and our subsidiaries with respect to federal consumer conditionally registered as security-based swap dealers with

protection laws. the SEC or registered as broker-dealers or futures commission

merchants.

December 2023 Form 10-K 6

Table of Contents

For more information about the specific capital requirements systemically important financial institutions supervised by the

applicable to us and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, as well as Federal Reserve). In addition, we are subject to a limit of 25%

our subsidiaries that are broker-dealers, swap dealers and of Tier 1 capital for aggregate net credit exposures to any

security-based swap dealers, see “Management’s Discussion other unaffiliated counterparty.

and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of

Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory The Federal Reserve may establish additional prudential

Requirements” and Note 16 to the financial statements. standards for large BHCs, including with respect to an early

remediation framework, contingent capital, enhanced public

Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Capital Distributions. The disclosures and limits on short-term debt, including off-

Federal Reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test balance sheet exposures. See “Management’s Discussion and

requirements for large BHCs, including Morgan Stanley. For Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—

more information about our capital planning and stress test Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements

requirements, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of —Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity, Long-Term Debt and

Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity Clean Holding Company Requirements.”

and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements.”

If the Federal Reserve or the Financial Stability Oversight

In addition, the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC have Council determines that a BHC with $250 billion or more in

the authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends by consolidated assets poses a “grave threat” to U.S. financial

the banking organizations they supervise, including us and stability, the institution may be, among other things, restricted

our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, if, in the banking regulator’s in its ability to merge or offer financial products and/or

opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or required to terminate activities and dispose of assets. See also

unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the “Capital Requirements” and “Liquidity Requirements” and

banking organization. For information about the Federal “Resolution and Recovery Planning” herein.

Reserve’s restrictions on capital distributions for large BHCs,

see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Resolution and Recovery Planning. We are required to submit

Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital once every two years to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a

Resources—Regulatory Requirements—Capital Plans, Stress resolution plan that describes our strategy for a rapid and

Tests and the Stress Capital Buffer.” All of these policies and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the

other requirements could affect our ability to pay dividends event of our material financial distress or failure. Interim

and/or repurchase stock or require us to provide capital updates are required in certain limited circumstances,

assistance to our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries under circumstances including material mergers or acquisitions or fundamental

that we would not otherwise decide to do. changes to our resolution strategy.

Liquidity Requirements. In addition to capital regulations, the Our preferred resolution strategy, which is set out in our most

U.S. banking agencies have adopted liquidity and funding recent resolution plan, is an SPOE strategy, which generally

standards, including the LCR, the NSFR, liquidity stress contemplates the provision of adequate capital and liquidity

testing and associated liquidity reserve requirements. by the Parent Company to certain of its subsidiaries so that

such subsidiaries have the resources necessary to implement

For more information, see “Management’s Discussion and the resolution strategy after the Parent Company has filed for

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations— bankruptcy.

Liquidity and Capital Resources—Balance Sheet—

Regulatory Liquidity Framework.” Our next resolution plan is due July 1, 2025. Further, we

submit an annual recovery plan to the Federal Reserve that

Systemic Risk Regime. Under rules issued by the Federal outlines the steps that management could take over time to

Reserve, large BHCs, including Morgan Stanley, must generate or conserve financial resources in times of prolonged

conduct internal liquidity stress tests, maintain unencumbered financial stress.

highly liquid assets to meet projected net cash outflows for 30

days over the range of liquidity stress scenarios used in Certain of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries are also

internal stress tests, and comply with various liquidity risk subject to resolution and recovery planning requirements in

management requirements. These large BHCs also must the jurisdictions in which they operate. For example, the

comply with a range of risk management and corporate FDIC currently requires certain insured depository institutions

governance requirements. (“IDI”), including our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, to submit a

resolution plan every three years that describes the IDI’s

The Federal Reserve also imposes single-counterparty credit strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of

limits (“SCCL”) for large banking organizations. U.S. Global material financial distress or failure of the IDI.

systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”), including us, are

subject to a limit of 15% of Tier 1 capital for aggregate net In addition, certain financial companies, including BHCs such

credit exposures to any “major counterparty” (defined to as the Firm and certain of its subsidiaries, can be subject to a

include other U.S. G-SIBs, foreign G-SIBs and non-bank resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority,

7 December 2023 Form 10-K

Table of Contents

with the FDIC being appointed as receiver, provided that localization requirements and restrictions on cross-border

determination of extraordinary financial distress and systemic transfer of personal and other data that may restrict our ability

risk is made by the U.S. Treasury Secretary in consultation to conduct business in those jurisdictions or create additional

with the U.S. President. Regulators have adopted certain financial and regulatory burdens to do so.

orderly liquidation authority implementing regulations and

may expand or clarify these regulations in the future. If we Numerous jurisdictions have passed laws, rules and

were subject to the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC regulations in these areas and many are considering new or

would have considerable powers, including: the power to updated ones that could impact our businesses, particularly as

remove directors and officers responsible for our failure and the application, interpretation and enforcement of these laws,

to appoint new directors and officers; the power to assign our rules and regulations are often uncertain and evolving. Many

assets and liabilities to a third party or bridge financial aspects of our businesses are subject to legal requirements

company without the need for creditor consent or prior court concerning the use and protection of certain customer and

review; the ability to differentiate among our creditors, other information, as well as the privacy and cybersecurity

including treating certain creditors within the same class laws referenced above. We have adopted measures designed

better than others, subject to a minimum recovery right on the to comply with these and related applicable requirements in

part of disfavored creditors to receive at least what they would all relevant jurisdictions.

have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and broad powers to

For additional information on our cybersecurity strategy and

administer the claims process to determine distributions from

processes, see “Cybersecurity.”

the assets of the receivership. The FDIC has been developing

an SPOE strategy that could be used to implement the orderly

Institutional Securities and Wealth Management

liquidation authority.

U.S. Bank Subsidiaries. Our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are

Regulators have also taken and proposed various actions to

FDIC-insured depository institutions subject to supervision,

facilitate an SPOE strategy under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code,

regulation and examination by the OCC and are subject to the

the orderly liquidation authority or other resolution regimes.

OCC’s risk governance guidelines, which establish

heightened standards for a large IDI’s risk governance

For more information about our resolution plan-related

framework and the oversight of that framework by the IDI’s

submissions and associated regulatory actions, see “Risk

board of directors. Our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are also

Factors—Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risk,”

subject to prompt corrective action standards, which require

“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial

the relevant federal banking regulator to take prompt

Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital

corrective action with respect to a depository institution if that

Resources—Regulatory Requirements—Total Loss-

institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards.

Absorbing Capacity, Long-Term Debt and Clean Holding

In addition, BHCs, such as Morgan Stanley, are required to

Company Requirements” and “Management’s Discussion and

serve as a source of strength to their U.S. bank subsidiaries

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—

and commit resources to support these subsidiaries in the

Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements

event such subsidiaries are in financial distress. Our U.S.

—Resolution and Recovery Planning.”

Bank Subsidiaries’ business activities are generally limited to

Cyber and Information Security Risk Management and supporting our Institutional Securities and Wealth

Protection of Client Information Management business segments. Our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries’

business activities are generally limited to supporting our

The financial services industry faces increased global Institutional Securities and Wealth Management business

regulatory focus regarding cyber and information security risk segments.

management practices. Many aspects of our businesses are

subject to cybersecurity legal, regulatory and disclosure Our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are also subject to Sections 23A

requirements enacted by U.S. federal and state governments and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, which impose

and other non-U.S. jurisdictions. These requirements are restrictions on certain transactions with affiliates, including

generally aimed at codifying basic cybersecurity protections any extension of credit to, or purchase of assets from, an

and mandating data breach notification requirements. affiliate. These restrictions limit the total amount of credit

exposure that our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries may have to any

Our businesses are also subject to increasing privacy and data one affiliate and to all affiliates and require collateral for

protection legal requirements concerning the use and those exposures. Section 23B requires affiliate transactions to

protection of certain personal information with regard to be on market terms.

clients, employees and others. These requirements impose

mandatory privacy and data protection obligations, including As commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository

providing for individual rights, enhanced governance and institutions, each of our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries could be

accountability requirements, and significant fines and responsible for any loss to the FDIC from the failure of the

litigation risk for noncompliance. In addition, several other U.S. Bank Subsidiary.

jurisdictions have enacted or proposed personal and other data

December 2023 Form 10-K 8

Table of Contents

Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation. Our are subject to net capital requirements of, and certain of their

primary U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, Morgan Stanley & activities are regulated by, the CFTC and the National Futures

Co. LLC (“MS&Co.”) and Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Association (“NFA”). MS&Co. is also subject to

LLC (“MSSB”) are registered broker-dealers with the SEC requirements of, and regulation by, the CME Group, in its

and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and capacity as MS&Co.’s designated self-regulatory

the U.S. Virgin Islands and are members of various self- organization, and various commodity futures exchanges of

regulatory organizations, including the Financial Industry which MS&Co. is a member. Rules and regulations of the

Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), and various securities CFTC, NFA, the Joint Audit Committee and commodity

exchanges and clearing organizations. Broker-dealers are futures exchanges address obligations related to, among other

subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the things, customer asset protections, including rules and

securities business, including sales and trading practices, regulations governing the segregation of customer funds, the

securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of use by futures commission merchants of customer funds, the

customers’ funds and securities, capital structure, risk margining of customer accounts and documentation entered

management controls in connection with market access, into by futures commission merchants with their customers,

recordkeeping and retention, and the conduct of their record-keeping and reporting obligations of futures

directors, officers, representatives and other associated commission merchants and introducing brokers, risk

persons. Broker-dealers are also regulated by securities disclosure and risk management. Our commodities activities

administrators in those states where they do business. Our are subject to extensive laws and regulations in the U.S. and

significant broker-dealer subsidiaries are members of the abroad.

Securities Investor Protection Corporation.

Derivatives Regulation. We are subject to comprehensive

MSSB is also a registered investment adviser with the SEC. regulation of our derivatives businesses, including regulations

MSSB’s relationship with its investment advisory clients is that impose margin requirements, public and regulatory

subject to the fiduciary and other obligations imposed on reporting, central clearing and mandatory trading on regulated

investment advisers. The SEC and other supervisory bodies exchanges or execution facilities for certain types of swaps

generally have broad administrative powers to address non- and security-based swaps (collectively, “Swaps”).

compliance, including the power to restrict or limit MSSB

from carrying on its investment advisory and other asset CFTC and SEC rules require registration of swap dealers and

management activities. security-based swap dealers, respectively, and impose

numerous obligations on such registrants, including adherence

The Firm is subject to various regulations that affect broker- to business conduct standards for all in-scope Swaps. We

dealer sales practices and customer relationships, including have registered a number of U.S. and non-U.S. swap dealers

the SEC’s “Regulation Best Interest,” which requires broker- and conditionally registered a number of U.S. and non-U.S

dealers to act in the “best interest” of retail customers at the security-based swap dealers. Swap dealers and security-based

time a recommendation is made without placing the financial swap dealers regulated by a prudential regulator are subject to

or other interests of the broker-dealer ahead of the interest of uncleared Swap margin requirements and minimum capital

the retail customer. requirements established by the prudential regulators. Swap

dealers and security-based swap dealers not subject to

Margin lending by our broker-dealers is regulated by the regulation by a prudential regulator are subject to uncleared

Federal Reserve’s restrictions on lending in connection with Swap margin requirements and minimum capital requirements

purchases and short sales of securities. Our broker-dealers are established by the CFTC and SEC, respectively. In some

also subject to maintenance and other margin requirements cases, the CFTC and SEC permit non-U.S. swap dealers and

imposed under FINRA and other self-regulatory organization security-based swap dealers that do not have a prudential

rules. regulator to comply with applicable non-U.S. uncleared Swap

margin and minimum capital requirements instead of direct

Our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the SEC’s

compliance with CFTC or SEC requirements.

net capital rule and the net capital requirements of various

exchanges, other regulatory authorities and self-regulatory Investment Management

organizations. For more information about these

requirements, see Note 16 to the financial statements. Many of the subsidiaries engaged in our investment

management activities are registered as investment advisers

Research Regulation. In addition to research-related with the SEC. Many aspects of our investment management

regulations currently in place in the U.S. and other activities are also subject to federal and state laws and

jurisdictions, regulators continue to focus on research regulations in place primarily for the protection of the

conflicts of interest and may impose additional regulations. investor or client. These laws and regulations generally grant

supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers,

Futures Activities and Certain Commodities Activities

including the power to limit or restrict us from carrying on

Regulation. MS&Co. and E*TRADE Futures LLC, as futures

our investment management activities in the event that we fail

commission merchants, and MSSB, as an introducing broker,

to comply with such laws and regulations.

9 December 2023 Form 10-K

Table of Contents

In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are U.S. registered prudential requirements that are applicable under non-U.S.

broker-dealers and act as distributors to our proprietary law.

mutual funds and as placement agents to certain private

investment funds managed by our Investment Management Firmwide Financial Crimes Program

business segment. Certain of our affiliates are registered as

Our Financial Crimes program is coordinated and

commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool

implemented on an enterprise-wide basis and supports our

operators, or are operating under certain exemptions from

financial crime prevention efforts across all regions and

such registration pursuant to CFTC rules and other guidance,

business units. The program includes anti-money laundering

and have certain responsibilities with respect to each pool

(“AML”), economic sanctions (“Sanctions”), anti-boycott,

they advise. Our investment management activities are subject

anti-corruption, anti-tax evasion, and government and

to additional laws and regulations, including restrictions on

political activities compliance programs and aligned business-

sponsoring or investing in, or maintaining certain other

line risk functions.

relationships with, covered funds, as defined by the Volcker

Rule, subject to certain limited exemptions. See also

In the U.S., the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA

“Financial Holding Company—Activities Restrictions under

PATRIOT Act of 2001 and the Anti-Money Laundering Act

the Volcker Rule,” “Institutional Securities and Wealth

of 2020, imposes significant obligations on financial

Management—Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser

institutions to detect and deter money laundering and terrorist

Regulation,” “Institutional Securities and Wealth

financing activity, including requiring banks, broker-dealers,

Management—Regulation of Futures Activities and Certain

futures commission merchants, introducing brokers and

Commodities Activities,” and “Institutional Securities and

mutual funds to develop and implement AML programs,

Wealth Management—Derivatives Regulation” herein and

verify the 

[Content truncated due to length...]