2024 ANNUAL REPORT

UNSTOPPABLE.

tropeR

launnA

KSM

4202

At MSK, we leave no stone

unturned to provide

compassionate care to our

patients and to push the frontier

of scientific discoveries.

Every day, brilliant minds and

dedicated people give their all

to reimagine what is possible.

Cover: Thoracic surgeon Dr. Alexis Chidi

This page: Associate Laboratory Member Jason de la Cruz and Research Assistant Sagnik Sen look

at images from a cryo-EM microscope, which gives scientists an unprecedented view inside cells.

3

tropeR

launnA

KSM

4202

TABLE OF

CONTENTS

MSK in Review 2024 ....64

Board of Trustees ...........................66

Leadership ......................................68

Message From the President and the Chairman ..........................................6

Statistical Profile .............................70

Financial Summary ...........................72

The Society of MSK

For Us, It’s Personal .....................44 Administrative Board .......................74

Research and Care, United .................8

Fresh Air: How MSK Is Attacking Lung Cancer ..........12

Imam Yusuf Hasan has been an

Making Strides Against Metastasis .............................16 MSK chaplain for nearly 30 years.

Living Longer Better .................................................20

Cancer Vaccines:

The Immunotherapy Whose Time Has Come ..........22

The Next Frontier of Precision Diagnosis .................26

The MSK Campaign:

Fixing One Wrong Note ............................................27

Leading Science. Changing Lives

... 52

MSK Giving ...........................................54

A Love Story. A Legacy ...............................58

The Society of Memorial Sloan

Kettering Cancer Center .............................60

MSK Donors: Gifts of $100,000 and Above .......... 62

Dr. David Scheinberg is a leader of

immunotherapy drug development at MSK.

What Matters Most

................32

Life, Their Way ...............................34

Lifeline: MSK’s Expertise in Caring

for People Under 50 ........................ 40

Tom Scalera and Brett Ravage found a second chance

Spine surgery patient Amy Speck hugs her niece. at love through the MSK community.

5

tropeR

launnA

KSM

4202

A Message From

the Chairman and the President

The year 2024 will be remembered for the bold and strategic course we set to fulfill our

mission of ending cancer for life. The need to plan for the future is urgent, as the Centers

for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) predicts the number of people with cancer is

expected to increase by 50% by 2050. At the same time, there is unprecedented hope

and opportunity in the understanding and treatment of cancer.

To continue our global leadership in the field, To support these initiatives, 2024 marked the

we have prioritized six strategic initiatives: launch of The MSK Campaign: Leading Science.

• I nnovate Clinical Strategy by expanding our capacity Changing Lives. The goal of this philanthropic campaign,

in many ways. We’ve achieved significant progress perhaps the most important in MSK’s 140-year history,

toward our goal to complete The Kenneth C. Griffin is to ensure that MSK doctors and scientists will have

Pavilion at MSK in 2030. Our regional locations the resources they need to develop new treatments

continue to create new ways to increase access and cures, turning a legacy of innovation into impact.

and deliver an exceptional patient experience. In this report, you’ll see how this is happening

• D rive Scientific Discovery by answering every day at MSK, including:

fundamental questions of biology that lay the • Advances in genetic testing, such as MSK-IMPACT®,

groundwork for the cancer treatments of tomorrow. that have helped patients like jazz pianist Michael

Scott Stuart, MSK Board Chair, and Dr. Selwyn Vickers, MSK President and CEO

Across MSK, there are teams of scientists driven to Wolff overcome an extremely rare cancer.

discover, using advanced technology and new tools • N ew insights into the secrets of metastatic cancer cells, For us, it’s personal. When MSK’s Shakima Grant As we create the future of cancer care, guided

in cancer engineering. which can change their identity to evade therapies. talks to people about the future Kenneth C. Griffin by our strategic initiatives and supported by the

• Harness the Immune System to boost the body’s • Accelerated development of vaccines to treat cancer Pavilion at MSK, she remembers her grandmother’s generosity of the MSK Giving Community, we thank

innate power to fight cancer, a field that MSK with a patient’s own immune system, with the help experience getting cancer care in New York. For you for your partnership. Because of you, the greatest

pioneered, which has become among the most of the newly launched Olayan Center for Cancer Margaret Bediones, being a nurse at the MSK Ralph minds and the most compassionate people are able to

promising treatments in cancer therapy. Vaccines at MSK. Lauren Center in Harlem fulfills a promise she made to give their all to reimagine what is possible. Be assured,

• Expand Precision Oncology to tailor a patient’s • I mportant advances in the treatment of lung cancer herself to help people — at just 12 years old — when her our determination is unstoppable.

cancer treatment to the molecular and genetic that have helped patients like Jen Cosgrove, who father passed away from cancer.

characteristics of their disease, an approach that was diagnosed with stage 4 disease in her 30s. The MSK community also includes the family

MSK helped introduce to the world. At MSK, we focus on not only a patient’s cancer and friends of our patients, who contribute to

• T ransform Data Into Cures through MSK’s unique diagnosis but also on what matters most to them. our mission through events like Cycle for Survival.

Selwyn M. Vickers, Scott M. Stuart

capability to analyze the vast amount of information • For Staten Island teenager Cody Bass, that meant This report shares the touching story of two people MD, FACS Chair, Board of Trustees

gathered by treating hundreds of thousands of helping him return to championship-winning form grieving the loss of their spouses, who found each President and

people and finding insights that continuously in bowling after becoming the first pediatric patient other and are forging a new path forward. Chief Executive Officer

advance patient care. with a rare metastatic cancer to take a medication

• D evelop the Next Generation of Leaders through that targets a tumor’s mutation.

innovative educational and training programs that • For Dana Vergara, that meant fulfilling her dream

The MSK Campaign is led by co-chairs Stanley F. Druckenmiller, Member of the MSK Board of Trustees;

create exceptionally skilled physicians, scientists, of giving birth following rectal cancer, thanks to

Marie-Josée Kravis, Vice Chair of the MSK Board of Trustees;

and other professionals who bring the MSK standard leading-edge surgery at MSK.

and Scott M. Stuart, Chair of the MSK Board of Trustees.

of excellence to the world.

7

tropeR

launnA

KSM

4202

RESEARCH AND

CARE, UNITED

The dynamic connection between our research

labs and our patient care makes MSK a world-class

leader in cancer treatment. People who come to

MSK benefit from new, investigational therapies that

may not be available at other hospitals. As a result,

our patients face cancer with confidence and hope.

Postdoctoral fellow Frank Arnold studies

pancreatic cancer in the Mara Sherman Lab.

9

tropeR

launnA

KSM

4202

9

tropeR

launnA

KSM

4202

A rare blood cancer called

In 2024, the U.S. Food and Drug

mantle cell lymphoma

Administration (FDA) approved

11 drugs based on clinical trials in

Brain tumors

which MSK played a pivotal role. called

low-grade diffuse gliomas

Adult and pediatric patients with

advanced or metastatic Adults with a rare soft tissue cancer

synovial sarcoma

thyroid cancers called

Children and adults

with leukemia

Cancers anywhere in that has

the body caused by come back after treatment

gene changes called Advanced and metastatic

NTRK fusions bile duct cancer

(cholangiocarcinoma) and other biliary

tract cancers with high levels of HER2

Advanced colorectal

pancreatic cancer

Advanced

cancer

caused by or non-small cell lung cancer

a gene mutation

that has an alteration called

Breast cancers

called KRAS-G12C an NRG1 gene fusion

that are ER+, HER2-

Metastatic non-small cell

To learn more about these new therapies, scan here.

lung cancer

11

tropeR

launnA

KSM

4202

“When I started the drug, I student at Duke University when diagnosis were younger than typical

couldn’t stand up,” Jen says. “Within he was diagnosed with small cell small cell lung cancer patients, who

four days I got off my couch and lung cancer, one of the two major average around 70 years old. And

said, ‘Let’s take the kids to the types of lung cancer (the other is they reported smoking very lightly

arcade.’ It was like a switch flipped, called non-small cell lung cancer). or never.

and I have never looked back.” Like Jen, he was a never-smoker. This new subtype also displays

The unparalleled combination “That is very unusual,” says a genetic signature — a “shattering”

of compassionate care, cutting- physician-scientist Charles Rudin, of one or more chromosomes

edge diagnostics, and world-class MD, PhD, who was one of Khaliq’s in the cancer cells. This unusual

research is helping the experts doctors. “This is a type of cancer genomic change may point toward

at MSK rewrite the playbook for that’s almost always associated treatment strategies.

lung cancer. with heavy smoking. So that Tragically, the cancer that

For Jen, this has meant reaching prompted us to begin looking Khaliq confronted was too far

milestones she feared were for other, similar examples of advanced to stop, and he passed

impossible when she learned she never-smokers with small cell lung away. His case underscores the

had metastatic lung cancer in 2017. cancer. We identified a group of

“I’ve seen my kids enter high school patients who fit this pattern.”

and graduate middle school and The search for answers brought

move up in elementary school. I’ve together 42 physicians and re-

been to their parties, and I run them searchers across MSK — from the

all over for their sports and activities.” doctors who treat lung cancer to

“I just feel really lucky,” she says, specialists in tumor genetics and

“because with cancer your first shot computer analysis to pathologists,

is your best shot, and for me that who evaluate cells and tissues to

came at MSK.” make a diagnosis.

Fresh Air Together, they found a rare,

Discovering a New Type distinct subtype of lung cancer they

of Lung Cancer dubbed “atypical small cell lung Khaliq Sanda was only 19 years old when

How MSK Is Attacking Lung Cancer he was diagnosed with lung cancer.

Khaliq Sanda was a 19-year-old carcinoma.” The people facing this

MSK’s expertise in treating lung cancer has helped Jen Cosgrove (center) enjoy precious

milestones with her children, Aidan (top left), Andrew (bottom left), and Lauren.

Jen Cosgrove says her first my entire history, soup to nuts,” Jen was ALK positive, and my mother

appointment at Memorial says. “It was a hard conversation, and sister started crying with joy,”

Sloan Kettering Cancer Cen- because they were pretty sure I was Jen recalls.

stage 4, meaning the cancer had She and her family had done

ter (MSK) was unforgettable.

spread. That’s a hard pill to swallow their research. Jen’s tumor had a

“When my family and I showed

because it’s not curable.” mutation in a gene called ALK

up at MSK, we felt totally defeated,”

But one thing she heard that that was helping fuel the cancer.

she says. “We knew I had a type of

day stood out. “The MSK doctors However, this type of mutation

lung cancer called adenocarcinoma

told me, ‘We have hope. Advances can be susceptible to a targeted

— that was it.”

in research and treatment are therapy called alectinib that can

As a wife and mother in her 30s,

happening right now that can help slow the cancer’s growth.

she was deeply frightened, not just

you.’ I felt encouraged for the first Jen was prescribed alectinib

for herself but for her three children,

time, which was awesome.” by MSK thoracic medical oncologist

all under the age of 9.

MSK quickly established her Alexander Drilon, MD. He is a pio-

“At my first appointment at MSK,

precise diagnosis and uncovered neering researcher of cancer-related

the care team sat with us for three

crucial information about the cancer. mutations and Chief of the MSK Thoracic medical oncologist Dr. Alexander Drilon, Chief of the Early Drug Development Service, cares for people with lung cancer

and a half hours and went through

and specializes in testing new medicines to treat cancer.

“MSK called to tell me the cancer Early Drug Development Service.

13

tropeR

launnA

KSM

4202

cancers express DLL3 at various

levels,” Dr. Rudin says.

The technology could determine

if a patient may be helped by drugs

that target DLL3. And Dr. Rudin

believes it may be possible to link

the radioactive particle to other

therapies “that could create an

important new treatment option.”

Unlocking the Secrets

of Stem Cells at Lung

Cancer’s Beginning

At the Sloan Kettering Institute,

the lab of Joo-Hyeon Lee, PhD, is

exploring fundamental questions

about the biology of the lung that Thoracic surgeon Dr. Gaetano Rocco holds a component of the “E-nose,” a non-

can shed new light on lung cancer. invasive cancer test that has produced promising results in a clinical trial at MSK.

A major focus of her lab is

stem cells. Stem cells keep lungs

to study how cells communicate Lifesaving Confidence

healthy by dividing to replace old

and work together to form and This depth and breadth of research,

Thoracic surgeon Dr. Alexis Chidi, Co-Director of MSK’s Lung Cancer Screening Program, or damaged lung cells. “We study repair tissues or tumors,” explains stretching from the lab to the clinic,

cares for people with lung cancer and has a special interest in early cancer detection. how stem cells work to maintain

Dr. Lee. “We also investigate how gives Jen Cosgrove enormous

and regenerate healthy tissue,” says

tumor cells compete with healthy confidence in her MSK team. Since

Dr. Lee. “But we also know that when

seriousness of lung cancer — which 50 to 80 years old who smoke or for chemicals called volatile organic cells for resources and change her own diagnosis seven years

stem cells get dysregulated — which

causes more deaths than any other did in the past.” compounds that are emitted by their environment to better support ago, she has become a passionate

means something goes awry —

type of cancer — as well as the need cancer cells. their growth.” advocate for lung cancer issues

that can lead to cancer as cells grow

to constantly improve screening for Promising New Techniques “The E-nose was very accurate The lab’s research spans the full and someone who is deeply

out of control. We investigate how

the disease to catch it as early for Better Diagnosis when compared with the long- cycle of lung health — from healthy knowledgeable about the latest

stem cells work to understand what

as possible. In 2024, MSK researchers made established available imaging tissue maintenance to tumor scientific advances.

happens when things go wrong.”

“Screening is one of the best major strides in developing new methods,” such as X-rays and CT development and back to healing “I trust my MSK team with my

One way her team does this

tools we have to identify lung methods that could one day and PET scans, says Dr. Rocco. after treatment. “Understanding life — literally,” she says. “If the time

is using patient-derived organoids

cancer early,” says thoracic surgeon transform lung cancer diagnosis. He believes that if the E-nose is how stem cells work in each of these comes that I need some other

— miniature lungs grown in the lab

Alexis Chidi, MD, PhD, and Co- MSK thoracic surgeon Gaetano fully developed, it may encourage stages is crucial,” says Dr. Lee. “This treatment, I know they’ll help me.

using samples of a patient’s tissue.

Director of the MSK Lung Cancer Rocco, MD, conducted a clinical trial more people who should get knowledge could help us develop They’re like my family now. And I

“They are like mini lungs, allowing us

Screening Program. that showed promising results for a screened for lung cancer to do better treatments for lung disease.” so appreciate it.” l

“Our research teams are working screening method called “E-nose.” so, because the method “is nonin-

diligently to find effective strategies E-nose involves a person breathing vasive and inexpensive and could

to identify lung cancer early for peo- into a collection device for three eventually be small enough to fit in Dr. Drilon’s research is supported by the MSK donor community, including

ple at risk, including those people minutes to develop what’s called a a doctor’s pocket.” Keren Phillips and Deborah Kazis-Taylor for the Earle and Judy Kazis Foundation Fund

who don’t meet current screening “breathprint.” A highly sophisticated MSK researchers also published and The Gibbons Scattone Family Foundation.

guidelines, which focus on people technology then “smells” the sample research on a new imaging tech-

nique they developed that uses a Dr. Rudin’s research is supported by the MSK donor community, including

radioactive particle that binds to Ge Li & Ning Zhao Family Foundation, Stand Up To Cancer,

a molecule on cancer cells called Goldberg Family Foundation, Inc., and Robert J. Kleberg, Jr. and Helen C. Kleberg Foundation.

“We investigate how tumor cells compete

DLL3 and makes the cancer cells

more visible on PET scans. Dr. Lewis’ research is supported by the MSK donor community, including The Tow Foundation.

with healthy cells for resources.”

The technique was developed

in the labs of MSK radiochemist Dr. Rudin holds the Sylvia Hassenfeld Chair in Lung Cancer Research.

—Dr. Joo-Hyeon Lee, stem cell biologist

Jason S. Lewis, PhD, and Dr. Rudin. Dr. Lewis holds the Emily Tow Chair in Oncology.

“About 70% to 80% of small cell lung

15

tropeR

launnA

KSM

4202

Dr. Karuna Ganesh reviews research results

with MD-PhD student Elizabeth Benitez.

supportive care, the National

Cancer Institute reports. Deaths

Making Strides from breast cancer alone dropped

58% between 1975 and 2019 —

Against Metastasis with nearly a third of the drop

due to advances in treating meta-

static breast cancer — a recent

multicenter study found.

This fluorescent image of a patient’s colorectal cancer liver metastasis shows the diversity “At MSK, we are attacking the

of cell states from normal intestinal states (dark blue) to atypical cell states (other colors). problem from all sides,” says Joan At MSK, clinicians such as Dr. David Jones and laboratory researchers are working

together to study metastasis and find new treatments.

Massagué, PhD, a world-renowned

metastasis researcher and Chief

Sometimes doctors say that to understanding metastatic disease. Some of their recent discoveries Scientific Officer for MSK. “Our investigate lung cancer metastasis Druckenmiller Center for Lung

people don’t die from cancer, “But the cancer cells that manage to are providing crucial insights into ultimate goal is to turn metastatic in individuals. The new model Cancer Research.

they die from metastasis — survive treatment become more and metastasis and pointing toward cancer into a manageable chronic aims to help doctors understand Meanwhile, neuro-oncologist

that is, from the spread of more aggressive, until eventually we new opportunities for potential condition and, perhaps one day, tumor evolution, assess the effec- Adrienne Boire, MD, PhD, is leading

cancer from an initial can’t stop them.” treatments. to be able to stop it for good.” tiveness of different drugs against a clinical trial that grew out of MSK

That’s why Dr. Ganesh and other And there’s reason for hope.

“primary” tumor to other a tumor, reveal mechanisms of research that targets cancer that

parts of the body. researchers across MSK are working Already, a growing number of Attacking Metastasis resistance to targeted therapies, has spread to the fluid and tissues

to illuminate the mysteries of metas- people are living longer with on Many Fronts and help personalize strategies of the spinal column and brain

Metastasis is responsible for

tasis and to identify opportunities to metastatic cancer thanks to Researchers across MSK are for immunotherapy. (leptomeningeal metastasis).

about 9 of every 10 cancer deaths,

slow or even stop its relentless march. advances in treatments and approaching a wide variety of “Creating these models directly The team showed that cancer

and it remains one of the most

metastatic cancer types from from our patient’s lung cancer cells cells were able to survive in this

daunting and least understood

many directions. adds yet another important tool for challenging environment by repro-

aspects of the disease. More people are living longer with

A team led by thoracic sur- us to better understand the biology gramming themselves to outcom-

“We know how to control primary

metastatic cancer, thanks to advances geon David Jones, MD, recently of lung cancer and to identify pete other cells for iron; this fuels

tumors — with surgery, chemotherapy,

established the first living-organism ways to better predict its behavior their growth while also preventing

and radiation,” says physician- in treatment and supportive care.

model of patient-derived organ- and treat the cancer with specific immune defenders in the area

scientist Karuna Ganesh, MD, PhD,

oids (mini 3D tissue models made therapies,” says Dr. Jones, who from getting enough iron, which

whose lab at Memorial Sloan Kettering Source: The National Cancer Institute

from a patient’s cancer cells) to co-directs MSK’s Fiona and Stanley they need to function well.

Cancer Center (MSK) is dedicated

17

tropeR

launnA

KSM

4202

“Our ultimate goal is to turn metastatic

cancer into a manageable chronic

condition and perhaps, one day,

to stop it for good.”

—Dr. Joan Massagué, Chief Scientific Officer, MSK

and metabolic demands of very clinical samples for research, devel- nant cells get empowered or de-

different environments,” Dr. Pe’er oping and sharing new techniques feated by the greater ecosystem

says. “And we see that they’re able and models, and encouraging of the body and individual types of

to access different gene programs new talent to join the endeavor,” tissue. Funding these early-stage

that allow them to thrive in different Dr. Boire says. studies is critical for securing more

places, different organs.” “MSK investigators are leading substantial grants from the National

Moreover, even genetically the way in illuminating the mecha- Institutes of Health and elsewhere.

different cancer cells tend to adapt nisms of metastasis,” she adds. “MSK is uniquely positioned

to specific situations by accessing Additional support for metas- to make significant progress against

Dr. Adrienne Boire is leading a clinical trial that targets metastatic cancer that has spread

the same gene programs. tasis research is also being provided metastasis in the coming years —

to the fluid and tissues of the spinal column and brain from elsewhere in the body.

“The big question of a cancer by the Marie-Josée and Henry R. thanks to this visionary philanthropic

cell is, ‘Are you plastic or not?’ Kravis Cancer Ecosystems Project. support, combined with our scien-

“Commandeering the iron is cellular identities are more fluid, a into both approaches is ongoing And once you are, you can Its goal is to fund ambitious tific talent, and the robust partner-

an elegant solution on the part of collaboration between Dr. Ganesh at MSK. acquire all these different traits. laboratory research aimed at ships between our clinical and

the cancer cell,” Dr. Boire says. and computational biologist Dana The environment is what really moving beyond the study of laboratory research communities,”

“It’s really unique biology that Pe’er, PhD, found. The Challenges determines what traits will be genetic mutations that drive says Dr. Massagué, who oversees

allows them to outcompete the When colorectal cancer cells of Studying Metastasis most advantageous,” she says. cancer to understand how malig- the Ecosystems Project. l

body’s defenders.” metastasize, they found, they look There are a number of factors that

Based on that discovery, less and less like the intestinal cells make metastasis difficult to study — Fueling the Future

Dr. Massagué’s research is supported by the MSK donor community,

doctors at MSK are now determining they started out as. In fact, they and reasons why MSK is well- of Discovery

including Marie-Josée and Henry Kravis, and Alan, Sandra, and

whether a drug called deferoxamine begin to resemble completely positioned to meet those challenges. One of the critical supports for

Adam Gerry through their Gerry Foundation.

could be an effective treatment different types of cells — like skin One challenge is that metastatic metastasis research at MSK comes

for leptomeningeal metastases by cells or neuroendocrine cells. Essen- cells may seed themselves in a variety from generous philanthropic gifts.

Dr. Iacobuzio-Donahue’s research is supported by

helping to remove iron from the tially, they travel back in time to an of locations throughout the body, Dr. Boire was recently selected

the MSK donor community, including David M. Rubenstein.

cerebrospinal fluid. early development phase, when the each with a unique microenvironment to be the new Scientific Director of

cell’s identity wasn’t yet decided. that can influence the behavior of the Alan and Sandra Gerry Metasta- Dr. Massagué holds the Marie-Josée and

Finding Metastasis’ “All this time traveling that cancer the cancer cells. sis and Tumor Ecosystems Center. Henry R. Kravis Foundation Chair.

Vulnerabilities cells do is a survival mechanism,” A recent collaboration between The center brings together a diverse

Another recent high-profile study Dr. Ganesh says. “It’s an adaptation Dr. Pe’er and Christine Iacobuzio- group of laboratory scientists and Dr. Jones holds the Fiona and Stanley

by MSK researchers illuminated new to help them survive the assaults Donahue, MD, PhD, who heads clinicians and provides additional Druckenmiller Chair in Lung Cancer.

and dramatic differences between of cancer treatment. And we think the David M. Rubenstein Center for resources to support projects

metastatic cancer cells and cells in this time traveling is actually a Pancreatic Cancer Research at MSK, focused specifically on metastasis. Dr. Boire holds a Geoffrey Beene Junior Faculty Chair.

the primary tumors they break away vulnerability that we could target.” examined the differences in genes “It would be hard to overstate

from — suggesting opportunities Dr. Ganesh and her colleagues that are turned on in genetically the impact of this center in the Dr. Pe’er holds the Alan and Sandra Gerry Endowed Chair.

for these differences to be harnessed see two potential opportunities identical cancer cells — called progress we’ve made already and

to fight metastasis. to interrupt metastasis as a result: clones — that had spread to different will continue to make in the coming Dr. Iacobuzio-Donahue holds the David M. Rubenstein Chair.

Metastatic cells have more finding a way to prevent cells from locations in the body. years,” Dr. Massagué says.

“plasticity” than their primary tumor entering this early state, as well as “What we see is that these clones “The center creates synergies Dr. Ganesh was a Josie Robertson Investigator in 2024.

counterparts — meaning their targeting the state itself. Research are able to adapt to the pressures across MSK by improving access to

19

tropeR

launnA

KSM

4202

Living With Stage 4 Cancer LaDawn Jefferson

Breast cancer

New York City Police administrator LaDawn Jefferson

Dennis Flaherty

had always been an avid runner, and she hasn’t let

Kidney cancer stage 4 breast cancer stop her. Three years ago, she

was diagnosed with HER2+ metastatic breast cancer

Four years ago, Dennis Flaherty was told that had spread to the fluid around her brain and spinal

to get his affairs in order when he was cord, typically a grave prognosis.

diagnosed with stage 4 kidney cancer at “I found myself packing up my closet, getting ready

another hospital. Refusing to give up, he to die,” she says. “I thought everything was over.”

sought care at MSK, ranked by U.S. News & But the 52-year-old grandmother from Brooklyn

World Report as the top hospital in the pushed through. She had surgery and chemotherapy,

country for urology care in 2024. After under the care of breast oncologist Pedram Razavi,

surgery, radiation, and checkpoint inhibitor MD, PhD. Incredibly, the day after her last treatment

immunotherapy, Dennis shows no evidence in February 2022, she ran a four-mile race. Now in

of disease. He’s back to just being a dad to complete remission for more than two years, she ran

his teenage daughter, Julia. the NYC Marathon last fall.

“Growing up in New York City, I always Believe it or not, LaDawn says she doesn’t like

heard that MSK was the best, but I didn’t running. “It’s a struggle,” she says. “But I like the compe-

know how easy it would be to get treatment tition I have with myself when I get out there. I’m proving

there,” says Dennis. “Now whenever I hear to myself that I can do anything, in spite of whatever is

that someone has been diagnosed with out there in front of me.”

cancer, I urge them to just pick up the phone

and call MSK for an appointment, like I did.”

Jacqueline Hickey

Lung cancer

Antonio Lekhrajmal

Jacqueline Hickey has been fighting lung

Stomach cancer cancer for 17 years. When it spread to her

bones four years ago, intense pain kept

When Antonio Lekhrajmal was diagnosed her from enjoying the life she’d always

with stage 4 stomach cancer, his doctor, treasured — working as a nurse and

gastrointestinal oncologist Yelena Janjigian, being a mother of four. But she found

MD, was frank about the challenge that relief at MSK’s special clinic for treating bone

faced him. “But she told me, ‘Together, metastases, where doctors in five different

we’re going to do everything possible to specialties can see patients on the same day

help you.’ ” More than five years later, thanks and coordinate treatments. Jacqueline was

to immunotherapy checkpoint inhibitors, treated with a combination of a nerve

Antonio is grateful to be doing what he block, stereotactic body radiotherapy, and

loves in retirement — spending time with cryoablation (which freezes and kills the

his family and immersing himself in his art bone metastases).

studio. Dr. Janjigian says, “I can now look “It’s unbelievable the difference it

some people in the eye who have stage 4 made,” she says. “There’s so many new

cancer and say there’s a possibility they will things coming out to help manage pain. If

live with this disease, rather than live in fear.” one thing doesn’t work, there’s always

something else they can try. I am here

enjoying lots of good things in my life and

am forever grateful for the care that MSK

continues to give.”

21

tropeR

launnA

KSM

4202

A cancer vaccine also engages cells can also send out signals That’s now possible, thanks to

the immune system, but in a slightly to immune cells to reduce new technology.

different way. It’s a therapeutic their efficiency. “The science has evolved, and

vaccine, which works by exposing the clinical applications have

the immune system to the specific “Therapeutic cancer vaccines evolved, which are contributing

proteins produced by a patient’s usually cannot wipe out an existing to the new optimism,” says

tumor, called antigens. Once the tumor or make bulky amounts of Dr. Scheinberg.

immune system sees those rogue cancer go away,” Dr. Scheinberg

proteins, it will attack them and says. “They work much better to A Visionary Vaccine Center

keep the cancer at bay. prevent cancer from coming back The momentum for cancer vaccines

after the tumor has been removed picked up speed in 2024 with

Fighting the Enemy by a surgeon or put into remission a generous gift supporting The

From Within by chemotherapy or radiation.” Olayan Center for Cancer Vaccines

Developing therapeutic cancer He points to the phenomenal (OCCV) at MSK, now a critical part

vaccines is a major challenge success of the HPV vaccine in of MSK’s broader efforts to develop

because cancer cells are the preventing the HPV virus from immunotherapies. It will expedite

enemy within. A person’s own cells infecting cells and causing them development of vaccines that target

are turning against them and to develop into cervical cancer. a wide range of cancers.

Cancer Vaccines:

growing out of control. Therefore, “We know vaccines can stop “This center is a unique,

cancer vaccines must teach the cancer from forming — the same visionary initiative that will enable

An Idea Whose Time Has Come

immune system how cancer cells principle holds when the cancer our researchers and clinicians to

differ from the rest of the body. is largely gone,” Dr. Scheinberg develop breakthroughs for people

If that goal can be achieved, says. “When people say cancer with cancer,” says MSK surgeon-

Dr. Scheinberg says that therapeutic vaccines just will not work, they are scientist Vinod P. Balachandran,

Dr. David Scheinberg, a leader of immunotherapy drug development at MSK, says an improved understanding of immune function

combined with advances in clinical applications has created a new optimism about cancer vaccines. cancer vaccines offer important wrong. They do work — if they are MD, Director of the OCCV.

advantages over other cancer specific, potent, attack multiple Dr. Balachandran has played

Remarkably, the idea that a patient’s own immune system treatments: antigens, and are given when there a key role in the development and

could fight cancer is more than a century old. • They can be given over a brief is not much cancer in the body.” testing of one of the most exciting

period and then are not needed

Back in 1893, Memorial Sloan thanks to new technology and

again, as the immune system

Kettering Cancer Center (MSK) more support for researchers in

learns to fight on its own.

bone surgeon and cancer re- the lab and the clinic.

• Side effects are lower compared

searcher William Coley, MD, no- David Scheinberg, MD, PhD,

with more toxic treatments such

ticed that patients with bacterial has been soldiering in the field

as chemotherapy or radiation

infections sometimes saw their for more than 20 years as a

therapy.

tumors shrink, which hinted that leader of immunotherapy drug

the body’s own immune system development at MSK.

In the past, Dr. Scheinberg

could be a weapon against “For a long time, cancer vaccines

explains, cancer vaccines fell short

cancer. More than 130 years later, didn’t show much promise, and

for several reasons:

researchers at MSK have continued people were skeptical,” he says.

• They were too narrowly focused,

to build upon Dr. Coley’s early “But the success of the COVID

targeting just one antigen.

ideas, breaking new ground and vaccine generated a lot of enthu-

“Tumors have different antigens

driving the field now known as siasm and has renewed interest

from cell to cell,” he says. “Some

“immunotherapy” forward. in cancer vaccines — and that is

tumor cells are attacked, but

Today, one specific type of great news for everyone working

others survive and grow.”

immunotherapy — cancer vaccines — in this field.”

• They were given to patients with

has taken center stage. Unlike The COVID vaccine demon-

too much cancer in the body;

traditional vaccines, which prevent strated that it’s possible to use

they didn’t have enough power

disease, a cancer vaccine would mRNA technology to train the

to conquer tumors, which can

actually treat the disease. The immune system to ward off virus

suppress immune attacks by mask- Dr. Vinod Balachandran is Director of The Olayan Center for Cancer Vaccines. He has

concept is audacious. It is chal- invaders, known as pathogens. ing their own antigens. Cancer played a key role in the development and testing of an mRNA-based vaccine for

lenging. And it is also achievable, It’s a preventive vaccine. treating pancreatic cancer.

23

tropeR

launnA

KSM

4202

examples of this type of therapy: The investigational vaccine, None of this research would be

a vaccine for treating pancreatic called autogene cevumeran, was possible without the ability to track

cancer based on mRNA. It is per- developed through a collaboration these activated T cells with the help of

sonalized for every patient, based between BioNTech and Genentech. computational biologist Benjamin

on their tumor’s particular antigens. In November 2024, updated results Greenbaum, PhD, Co-Director,

Dr. Balachandran led a phase 1 from the phase 1 trial showed Neoantigen Discovery, OCCV.

clinical trial showing that the that the immune cells targeting the “The way that computational

mRNA-based vaccine, given after tumor antigens had persisted for biologists and physician-scientists

surgery to remove pancreatic tu- more than three years. There is an collaborate is especially strong at

mors, stimulated the production of ongoing phase 2 study to determine MSK,” Dr. Greenbaum says. “I don’t

immune cells that recognized the whether that means the vaccinated think this research confirming the

antigens in the pancreatic tumors. patients live longer. vaccine’s effects on the immune Dr. Scheinberg’s research

cells would happen at other places.” is supported by the

MSK donor community,

Off-the-Shelf including Commonwealth

Cancer Vaccines Foundation for

The personalized vaccines represent Cancer Research.

remarkable feats of technology.

But they take weeks or months to Dr. Balachandran’s research

make and are expensive. So MSK is supported by the

researchers are working to develop MSK donor community,

off-the-shelf treatments, which could including Olayan

be given to patients as soon as they Charitable Foundation,

need them. FORTH Foundation,

One key to off-the-shelf cancer Margaret M. Keane,

vaccines: finding and targeting an Computational biologist Dr. Benjamin Greenbaum is helping lead research efforts and The Ben And Rose Cole

to track immune cells that have been activated by cancer vaccines, as well as clarify

antigen that is present in most Charitable PRIA Foundation.

which antigens will serve as the best vaccine targets.

cancer cells but not normal cells.

Again, MSK researchers are Dr. Greenbaum’s research

leading the way. Dr. Scheinberg has vial in a refrigerator, ready to be immune cells to target pancreatic is supported by the

developed a vaccine targeting an used,” Dr. Scheinberg says. “This cancer,” Dr. O’Reilly says. MSK donor community,

antigen called WT1, found in the could make them possibly more Scientists are also excited including The Tow

cancer cells of more than 95% of accessible and more affordable, about the possibility of using Foundation, and

people with acute myeloid leukemia which can be critical in helping the cancer vaccines to boost the Stand Up To Cancer.

(AML), ovarian cancer, and meso- most patients.” effectiveness of other therapies.

Barbara Brigham holds her newest grandchild, Florence Brigham, with (from

left) her son, Harry Brigham, and her granddaughters, Lily and Mae Brigham, thelioma. It is a complex “peptide” Another off-the-shelf, peptide- The pace of progress since Dr. Scheinberg holds

standing behind her. vaccine that triggers a targeted based vaccine is being tested for Dr. Coley’s discovery more than the Vincent Astor Chair.

immune response by using synthetic pancreatic and colorectal cancer a century ago has accelerated

peptides, which are strings of in a clinical trial co-led by medical dramatically in the past few Dr. O’Reilly holds the

One of Dr. Balachandran’s patients in the phase 1 study,

amino acids — the building blocks oncologist and pancreatic cancer years. Once believed unattain- Winthrop Rockefeller Chair

Barbara Brigham, is still doing well four years after

of proteins. specialist Eileen O’Reilly, MD. able, cancer vaccines are now full of Medical Oncology.

being diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, beating the

This WT1 peptide vaccine is The phase 1 trial involved patients of possibility.

odds for this particularly deadly cancer. After surgery to

now being tested in an international whose cancer had mutations in a “We have made tremendous

remove her tumor, she received an immunotherapy drug and then

phase 3 clinical trial for AML, gene called KRAS and were at high leaps over the last two decades

two doses of the mRNA vaccine based on the molecular structure of

sponsored by Sellas Life Sciences risk of the cancer returning after understanding how the immune

her tumor, followed by chemotherapy.

Group Inc. Dr. Scheinberg is a surgery. The results demonstrated system recognizes and kills

“I’m so glad I decided to participate in this trial,” she says. “I feel

Director of Sellas. this vaccine is safe and appears to tumors,” Dr. Scheinberg says.

good and have been working part time at the library, playing mahjong

“These off-the-shelf vaccines stimulate the patient’s immune sys- “These insights are what will help

with my friends, and spending more time with my grandchildren —

in development could potentially tem to create cancer-fighting cells. make cancer vaccines — and other

enjoying things that at one point I never thought I’d have.”

be available to patients — they “These findings show we have immune-based treatments — a

can be mass-produced and sit in a more than one way to activate reality for more patients.” l

25

tropeR

launnA

KSM

4202

Fixing One Wrong Note

The Next Frontier of

Precision Diagnostics You could consider renowned composer and jazz pianist Michael Wolff’s story to be one of

the greatest hits of precision diagnostics at MSK. Molecular testing saved his life by identifying the

rare cancer that was causing his inexplicable high fevers, violent shaking, and severe weakness, even after

he’d been treated for lymphoma at another hospital.

His wife insisted he get a second cancers. Even more fortunate, a drug Indeed they were. Three years

opinion at MSK. The initial test called trametinib (Mekinist®) had later, after several scans had

It all starts with the right

results were grim. MSK’s pathologists been approved to treat melanomas shown Michael was free of

diagnosis.

determined lymphoma was not with a vulnerability in a related gene. disease, Dr. Gounder said he could

the cause of Michael’s symptoms. Michael became the first per- stop taking the drug. Michael’s

Finding the right cancer treatment

He had histiocytic sarcoma, a son in the world to take trametinib treatment response was later

means figuring out the molecular

blood cancer so rare it affects only for histiocytic sarcoma. “We were published as a case study in the

changes that caused the cancer in

300 people in the United States improvising on the fly,” Dr. Gounder New England Journal of Medicine to

the first place. It’s the reason it

every year. It had spread throughout says. “His whole treatment was very alert other physicians worldwide

matters so much where patients are

his body. much like jazz music.” about this new treatment option.

treated first.

But there was hope. It was And it worked. “After only two And after MSK research on other

The precisely matched treat-

2017, and MSK-IMPACT® was being days, all my symptoms went away,” diseases related to histiocytic

ments available to patients today

offered to all patients with ad- Michael says. sarcoma, there are now effective

are the result of a big idea and a

vanced cancer treated at MSK. At his next appointment, Michael treatments for a whole class of

generous donation a decade ago,

Michael’s doctor, sarcoma medical told Dr. Gounder his symptoms had patients who previously had no

which launched the Marie-Josée

oncologist and early drug develop- vanished, except for some skin good options.

and Henry R. Kravis Center for

ment specialist Mrinal Gounder, problems caused by the trametinib. Michael says he’s proud to

Molecular Oncology (CMO). The

MD, told Michael the results from A PET scan performed 10 days be a textbook example of how

bold goal: to give every patient

the test just might point to a new after Michael started taking the drug correcting just one wrong note

who needs drug treatment a

therapy they could use. confirmed what he was feeling: His in the genetic code can return

personalized therapy, and to do

The test revealed a mutation tumors had already shrunk by 80%. a patient to good health. For

so regardless of what type of

in a gene called MAP2K1. Recent “I had chills when I saw the Michael, his wife, and two sons,

cancer they have.

Physician-scientist Dr. David Solit has led MSK’s Center for Molecular Oncology since its studies had revealed the role of results,” Dr. Gounder says. “It was everything is now in tune.

At the CMO’s inception, scien-

founding a decade ago. MAP2K1 mutations in driving certain clear we were on to something big.”

tists at Memorial Sloan Kettering

Cancer Center (MSK) believed in

the possibility of what it could do “These approaches have bene- and how to stop it,” says patholo-

for future patients. But at the fited not only patients treated at gist Kojo Elenitoba-Johnson,

time, patients with only a handful MSK, but all over the world,” says MD, Chair of the Department

of cancer types and a few gene medical oncologist David Solit, of Pathology and Laboratory

mutations could benefit. MD, Director of the CMO. “And Medicine. “It’s not at all farfetched

Today, the application of as the CMO enters its second to say that this will position us

precision oncology has skyrocketed. decade, it’s clear that testing to see things we’ve never been

People with cancer, especially those tumors for gene mutations is only able to see before.”

with metastatic disease, are routinely the beginning.”

screened for hundreds of mutations Moreover, data science and Test the Tumor, Find the

in their tumors. And dozens of artificial intelligence are accelerat- Target, Develop the Drug

targeted therapies have received ing progress and guiding the The CMO’s first big milestone was

approval from the U.S. Food and treatments that cancer patients the 2017 FDA authorization of

Drug Administration (FDA). receive at MSK and beyond. MSK-IMPACT®, a test that now

This quantum leap can be “Increasing the kinds of tests detects mutations in more than

attributed largely to the work of we do will enable us to get a 500 cancer-related genes. The test

Michael Wolff (far right) celebrates surviving a rare cancer with his family (from left) Michael has resumed composing and

the CMO. better view of what’s driving cancer was developed in partnership with sons, Nat and Alex Wolff, and his wife, Polly Draper. performing music.

27

tropeR

launnA

KSM

4202

MSK’s Molecular Diagnostics Service, are “tumor agnostic,” meaning Going Beyond Tumor DNA

which is led by pathologist Marc that they work regardless of where Unfortunately, despite all this

Ladanyi, MD. It was the first test of the cancer started in the body. This progress, it’s clear that new types

its kind to be authorized by the FDA. innovation has been important espe- of testing are needed. Not all

Later tests developed by the CMO cially for patients with rare cancers, patients are able to be matched

include MSK-ACCESS®, which allows because it is often impossible to enroll with treatments using current

doctors to examine DNA from solid enough patients in a clinical trial molecular diagnostic tests.

tumors using a blood test called a who share a specific tumor type. “DNA sequencing only tells us

liquid biopsy. This helps to noninva- Molecular testing can also guide so much,” Dr. Solit says. “We need

sively detect targetable mutations the use of treatments that harness to be able to collect additional

prior to the start of therapy as well a patient’s own immune system, by complementary information about

as monitor a patient’s progress identifying certain kinds of genomic the biology of an individual patient’s

without having to extract tissue. signatures that make patients more tumors that cannot be obtained

A decade later, there are many likely to respond to immunotherapy from our current tests. This includes

drugs that block the activities of drugs called checkpoint inhibitors. looking at gene expression — which

specific cancer-driving genes. Several genes are actually being made into

proteins — and what these proteins

Geneticist Dr. Michael Berger has co-led the development of many molecular

are doing.” That’s because changes in

“Increasing the kinds of tests we do will diagnostic tests at MSK.

protein function are what ultimately

affect how cells behave — and what

enable us to get a better view of what’s

causes them to become cancerous.

genetic information, while RNA by MSK-IMPACT. Whole-genome mutations that are inherited. That

One exciting new advance is a

driving cancer and how to stop it.” converts that information into sequencing looks for mutations in knowledge may affect their treatment.

test designed to measure RNA

instructions for creating proteins.) any of the 23,000 genes found in Germline testing has 

[Content truncated due to length...]