2024

Sustainability

Report

Table of contents

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report

Introduction People Planet

04 Letter from our CEO 29 Talent and learning 70 Emissions reduction

07 About IQVIA 33 Connecting with our people 74 Implementing more sustainable

research practices

11 Our commitment to sustainability 35 Building community

77 Operational waste

37 Well-being and benefits

Foundations 79 Water

39 Supporting our communities

79 Biodiversity

42 Health and safety

16 Governance

18 Ethics and compliance

Public Annex

21 Data and data privacy

24 Cybersecurity

45 Smarter healthcare for everyone, 81 About this report

26 Human rights everywhere

82 GRI index

26 Responsible procurement 48 Clinical trial quality, innovation,

96 SASB index

and access

99 Appendix A

52 Empowering patients

54 Global public health

62 Innovation and research

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

Accelerating

innovation for a

healthier world.

Introduction

04 Letter from our CEO

07 About IQVIA

11 Our commitment to sustainability

IQVIA Laboratories,

Durham, U.S.

IQVIA office, Tokyo, Japan

3

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

Investments in our employees important cause. Our employees also participated in

our annual IQVIA Day, investing their time to provide

IQVIA invests heavily in employee learning and

support in their local communities, which included

development so our employees can deliver on

volunteering at orphanages, participating in waste

our mission. Last year, we continued our focus on

cleanup initiatives, providing support to local

strengthening the skills of our employees so they

residents dealing with food and resource insecurity

may find additional opportunities for growth within

and homelessness, and supporting veterans’

IQVIA. We issued new learning and development

activities.

materials aligned to business needs, including topics

We continue to measure our progress in employee

such as AI, evolving leadership and data insights.

engagement through our semi-annual Employee

We also encourage mobility within our company to

Pulse Survey. We exceeded Fortune 500 benchmarks

support individual career progression. In fact, we

for key metrics in our employee surveys, confirming

use technology to match employees to open internal

employees feel energized by their work and

positions based on their skill sets and interests.

supported by their managers. Notably, 83% of

In addition, every year over 1,000 employees

Letter from our CEO

employees see a clear link between their work and

participate in one of our leadership development

IQVIA’s vision to power smarter healthcare for

Dear Stakeholders, programs.

everyone, everywhere (two points above the Fortune

Welcome to IQVIA’s 2024 Sustainability Report. We are committed to hiring the best talent to

500 benchmark) and 94.5% of employees were

explore innovative ideas and develop solutions

At IQVIA, our mission is to accelerate innovation aware of how to report ethical concerns or observed

to support patients’ needs. We bring together an

for a healthier world. Our 88,000 employees are misconduct (three points above the Fortune 500

expansive range of experiences and knowledge

dedicated to solving the most complex healthcare industry benchmark).

across our teams to build a connected community

challenges for more than 10,000 life sciences and

within IQVIA. Our global workforce now represents

healthcare customers in more than 100 countries.

90 different ethnicities, with women comprising 62%

Every day, we collaborate with customers and

of the workforce and minorities comprising 39% of

partners around the world to improve health

the U.S. workforce.

outcomes and increase our positive impact.

IQVIANs continued to make a positive impact in their

I am proud of the significant progress IQVIA has

local communities. In 2024, they contributed their

made in our sustainability efforts. Our commitment

time to various local community activities, including

to global health and our key 2024 sustainability

the annual Light the Night Walk for The Leukemia

achievements are detailed throughout this report.

& Lymphoma Society, where employees walked

I invite you to explore the positive impact IQVIANs

together in solidarity and raised funds for this

have made over the last year.

4

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

Access to healthcare • Introduced IQVIA AI Assistant, a generative AI tool • Supported the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation and

for life sciences customers, which provides quick ACESSA — the Brazilian Association of the Industry

Patients’ needs continue to be the central focus of

and powerful insights to reduce decision-making of Products for Self-Care in Health — to map viral

the research we support. This drives our mission

time and speed-up drug commercialization efforts respiratory disease outbreaks in Brazil. Using

and supports access to trials and treatments across

through a user-friendly, conversational interface in treatment information across Brazil, we can track

a range of patient populations. Our evidence-based

near real time. In addition, we established a Center outbreaks and identify those with endemic or

approach helps us to deliver insights that improve

for Defensible AI and an AI Governance Council to pandemic potential.

patient outcomes. Selected highlights include:

set clear guidelines for the industry in the ethical

Environmental impact

• Continued our work in enhancing the and responsible use of AI in healthcare.

representation of diverse clinical trial participants In line with our commitment to reducing our impact

Global health

to improve the provision of critical healthcare, the on the environment, we made progress in emissions

effectiveness of treatments and the identification IQVIA is uniquely positioned to tackle some of reduction, achieving a 27% reduction in scope 1 and

of adverse effects for underrepresented the world’s most complex public health problems 2 emissions against our 2019 baseline. In addition,

populations. Using our global scale and in collaboration with governments, healthcare we achieved 71% progress toward our 2027 scope

therapeutic expertise, we have expanded our providers, NGOs and the biopharmaceutical 3 target, with 50% of our suppliers having set or

geographic network of trial sites, including in industry. We utilize our differentiated capabilities committed to set emission reduction goals.

Africa and Latin America, strengthening research and global scale to develop tailored responses for all

In our laboratories, we removed almost 3 metric

capabilities, data access and the representation of healthcare research needs. For example, we:

tons of single-use plastic in our clinical trial test kits

patient populations in clinical trial datasets.

• Supported the Rwandan government, Coalition and partnered with Kits4Life, an initiative developed

• Supported the shift to locate more clinical trials for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, the Sabin by the life sciences community to donate and

in primary care practices by expanding our U.S.- Vaccine Institute and other partners to thwart repurpose surplus medical supplies from clinical

based Community Health Initiative, which aims to Marburg virus disease progression after an trials and labs. We also avoided 384 metric tons of

broaden patient access to trials and expand care outbreak was declared in Rwanda. COe in lab freezer waste. Over the past year, five

2

options for patients. more IQVIA laboratories achieved My Green Lab™

• Established vaccine effectiveness clinical trials in

• Launched Health Research Space, a direct- Kinshasa and Goma, the Democratic Republic of certification, leading to 100% of our laboratories

to-patient engagement platform that offers the Congo, enabling rapid development of a new certified, with 47% certified to the highest level.

participants a convenient way to share information mpox vaccine during the outbreak. Across our business, we increased the number of

about their health. This complements clinician recycled electronic devices by 63% from 2023.

• Participated in the World Health Organization’s

intervention and supports ongoing engagement

Global Clinical Trial Forum to assist in improving

for multi-year decentralized studies.

access to therapies in historically underserved

populations.

5

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

Strengthening governance • MedTech Breakthrough Awards. IQVIA’s SmartSolve®

eQMS platform won the “Best Use of Artificial Intelligence in

Our governance program plays a critical role in supporting our

Healthcare” award.

sustainability efforts by promoting accountability, which enhances

• My Green Lab. IQVIA received the “Race to Zero Leadership

long-term shareholder value. We have focused on strengthening

Award” by My Green Lab, in recognition of over 95% of our

various governance aspects that are crucial for our sustainability

laboratories achieving the highest level of My Green Lab

and responsible business practices. For example, we have a robust

certification.

framework of information governance and privacy policies to assist

us in responsibly handling sensitive data. We are also leading in the

I am proud of these incredible achievements and of IQVIA’s role

responsible use of AI. IQVIA is committed to using AI responsibly,

in supporting patients, caregivers, and underserved communities

with AI-powered capabilities built on best-in-class approaches to

globally. I would like to thank our employees for their dedication

privacy, regulatory compliance and patient safety, and delivering AI

and passion for advancing our mission, our customers for their

to the high standards of trust, scalability and precision demanded

partnership, and our stockholders and partners for their continued

by the healthcare industry. IQVIA’s Healthcare-grade AI™ represents

support.

our commitment to these principles.

By using our unique capabilities to innovate, accelerate trial

External recognition

delivery, and facilitate industry-wide collaboration, I am confident

we will continue to make a significant and meaningful impact on

We achieved significant industry recognition for our efforts

global health and improve patient outcomes. I look forward to

throughout the year, including:

sharing our additional achievements with you in 2025.

• FORTUNE®. IQVIA was named the No. 1 most admired

company in its category on the 2025 Fortune® World’s Most

Kind regards,

Admired Companies™ list. This is the fourth year in a row

IQVIA has earned first place in the Health Care: Pharmacy

and Other Services category, and the eighth consecutive year

it has appeared on the list. Notably, IQVIA earned first place

in its category on four key attributes — innovation, global

competitiveness, people management and use of corporate

assets.

Ari Bousbib,

• Brandon Hall Group. IQVIA received four Human Capital

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Management Excellence Awards® from Brandon Hall Group,

recognizing our commitment to developing and investing in our

employees and creating a supportive environment.

6

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

Using our unique breadth of

capabilities and global reach to

support a healthier world

We combine our strength in insights drawn from

IQVIA headquarters, Durham, information assets with deep understanding of

North Carolina, U.S.

patient needs and experiences to enable better

healthcare. With our global reach, we have the

About IQVIA footprint and capabilities to develop innovative

solutions and bring them quickly to market. Combined

IQVIA is a leading global provider of clinical research services, commercial insights and with highly experienced teams, local operations and

healthcare intelligence to the life sciences and healthcare industries. strategic partnerships, we tailor our offerings to

patient and market needs.

IQVIA’s portfolio of solutions is powered by IQVIA Connected Intelligence™ to deliver actionable

insights and services built on high-quality health information assets, Healthcare-grade AI™, advanced We continually seek to expand our capabilities.

analytics, the latest technologies and extensive domain expertise. With approximately 88,000 Strategic acquisitions in 2024 served to strengthen our

employees in over 100 countries, including experts in healthcare, life sciences, data science, position in MedTech and medical education. Through

technology and operational excellence, IQVIA is dedicated to accelerating the development and geographic expansion and new partnerships, we have

commercialization of innovative medical treatments to help improve patient outcomes and population further extended our reach in Africa and in Central and

health worldwide. Eastern Europe.

One of our key strengths is the depth and breadth of our information assets. IQVIA is a global leader Our market-leading Healthcare-grade AI™ is key to

in protecting individual patient privacy. We hold and continue to expand one of the largest powering smarter healthcare globally. Our technology

collections of healthcare information in the world, including 1.2 billion longitudinal, non-identified investments focus on combining, connecting, and

unique patient records. We have more than 64 petabytes of proprietary data from 150,000+ suppliers mining datasets to derive new insights and accelerate

and over one million feeds. IQVIA employs privacy, security and other information governance controls innovation for a healthier world.

and safeguards to help people and organizations handle content responsibly — protecting individual

privacy and sensitive information while generating and analyzing insights at scale.

7

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

Our business segments

Research & Development Solutions Technology & Analytics Solutions Contract Sales & Medical Solutions

(R&DS) (TAS) (CSMS)

• By connecting data, technology, and analytics, we • We help life sciences organizations maximize • We provide our customers with outsourcing

enable our customers to identify unmet medical commercial effectiveness. By connecting the latest support at all stages of the product lifecycle, from

needs, develop innovative therapies, optimize data, analytics, domain expertise, and technology, development through commercialization.

clinical trials, and improve care. Patients benefit we reveal new insights and improve decision-

• Our sales representatives, nurse educators, and

from improved treatment outcomes and faster making on pricing and market access, brand, and

medical science liaisons help customers ensure

access to life-changing therapies. promotional strategies.

that the right products are prescribed for the

• Our services span the full development cycle, • We inform healthcare decision-making and right patients. They provide patient services to

from initial planning through to phase III trials, improve patient outcomes through the provision encourage adherence and achieve optimal health

regulatory submission, and post-marketing of protected and secure patient data, and outcomes.

studies. generation and communication of real-world

evidence.

8

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

2024 in numbers

88,000 64+

employees serving customers in petabytes of unique data

100+ countries

~5,000 1.2B+

physicians and PhDs non-identified patient records

20,000+ 4,000+

clinical operations and advanced analytics / data

monitoring specialists scientists / statisticians

2,000+

12,000+

hospital partners

technology experts

9,000+ 4,400+

Real World specialists scientific publications over five years

$15.4B $3.7B1 $2.1B1

Annual revenue Adjusted EBITDA Free cash flow

1. See Appendix A on page 99 for a reconciliation of non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure.

9

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

2024 awards and recognition

• FORTUNE. IQVIA was included on the Fortune the healthcare industry, specifically for our

list of World’s Most Admired Companies™ for Enterprise Quality Management System (eQMS),

the eighth year in a row and ranked No. 1 in the SmartSolve®.

sector for the fourth year in a row.

• IDC Award. IQVIA was named a Leader in the

• Brandon Hall Group. IQVIA achieved four IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Life Science R&D

Human Capital Management Excellence awards. Technology Solutions and Consulting Services

Read more on page 33. 2024 Vendor Assessment.

• Forbes’ World’s Best Management Consulting • ISR Reports. In its 2024 CRO Leadership Awards,

Firm. IQVIA was recognized as a top Healthcare & ISR Reports listed IQVIA as the number one

Life Sciences consulting firm on Forbes' list. electronic Clinical Outcomes Assessment leader.

• MedTech Breakthrough Awards. Our • KLAS Award. We were recognized for our

SmartSolve® eQMS platform was recognized excellence as a software and service company

for the Best Use of Artificial Intelligence in two years in a row. Rankings are a direct result of

Healthcare. feedback from IQVIA’s customers.

• Everest Group. IQVIA was named a Leader in • My Green Lab (MGL) Race to Zero Leadership

both the Everest Group Regulatory and Medical Award. IQVIA Laboratories was awarded the

Affairs Operations PEAK Matrix® Assessment Race to Zero Leadership Award at the 2024

2024 and the Everest Group Life Sciences Next- MGL Summit. This achievement recognizes

Generation Customer Engagement Platforms the organization’s efforts to meet the UN

PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2024. Breakthrough Outcome Goal, making IQVIA

Laboratories the first to certify 95% of its

• Frost & Sullivan. IQVIA was awarded the 2024

laboratories through the MGL Certification

Global Customer Value Leadership Award for

program. Read more on page 75.

excellence in the global artificial intelligence

quality and regulatory solutions space for

©2025 Fortune Media IP Limited. All rights reserved. Used under license. Fortune® is a registered trademark and Fortune World’s Most Admired Companies™ is a trademark of

Fortune Media IP Limited and are used under license. Fortune and Fortune Media IP Limited are not affiliated with, and do not endorse the products or services of, IQVIA.

10

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

contribute to innovations for patients and

Our commitment

Mission

populations globally. We seek out innovative

Accelerate innovation for a healthier world

solutions, while ensuring that AI and new

to sustainability

technologies are deployed responsibly.

This applies within our business, through

Vision

Sustainability strategy

the support we offer to customers, and by

Power smarter healthcare for everyone, everywhere

advising on the development of new standards

Sustainability is central to our mission of

and regulations. Through our efforts to

accelerating innovation for a healthier world.

increase participation in clinical trials, we Sustainability pillars and ambitions

Every day, we collaborate with customers and

support discovery of effective treatments

partners to improve health outcomes and

for underserved patient populations. Our People Public Planet

People Public Planet

increase our positive impact.

understanding of patient needs informs

We refer to sustainability in its broadest sense — everything we do, from designing and

Harness the power

our core mission of improving patient outcomes executing clinical trials to enhancing market Inspire our of Connected Support our

customers and the

and human health as well as ensuring our access to innovative therapies. Read more in employees to Intelligence™ healthcare industry

continuously and innovation

to implement

employees' well-being and minimizing our impact the Public chapter on page 44. learn, grow, and to accelerate more sustainable

collaborate transformation in

on the environment. healthcare research practices

• Within our planet pillar, IQVIA’s

We have identified the sustainability issues most environmental program seeks to reduce

Build an engaged

relevant to our business and stakeholders. These our impact, with a focus on our laboratories community of

employees that

are encompassed in our three sustainability and supply chain. We are working to reduce treat each other Drive access to Reduce our waste,

focusing on

pillars: People, Public, and Planet. our emissions, and continue to explore waste with mutual healthcare for all laboratory waste

respect and have a

• Our people are fundamental to the success reduction initiatives across our labs and offices passion to advance

healthcare

of our business and our sustainability and support our customers to minimize waste

progress. An extensive suite of talent in clinical trials. Read more in the Planet

Leverage our

development, well-being and engagement chapter on page 69. emp C l h o a y m ee p h io e n a lth n s e t t a w k o e r h k o t ld o e c r o s n a n n e d c t i M m i p n a im ct i z o e n o t u h r e

initiatives positions us as an employer • Our sustainability strategy is built on strong and well-being improve public environment

health outcomes

of choice, helping to attract and retain foundations of robust governance across our

exceptionally talented employees. Read more value chain, data stewardship, and compliance

in the People chapter on page 28. with relevant sustainability legislation globally. Foundations

• As part of our commitment to the Read more in the Foundations chapter on Governance • Ethics and compliance • Data and data privacy

advancement of public health, we page 15. • Cybersecurity • Human rights • Responsible procurement

11

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

Materiality assessment

In 2024, we re-assessed the sustainability topics most material to

Results of our 2024 materiality assessment

our business and our stakeholders. Through a double materiality

assessment, we considered the financial risks and opportunities

from sustainability topics on IQVIA, as well as IQVIA’s potential

Highly

or actual impacts on people and the planet. Aligning our

significant

methodology with the requirements of the European Union's Cybersecurity

Innovation, research

Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), we engaged and collaboration to

Patient and population advance healthcare

stakeholders representing IQVIA’s full value chain, including health and safety Broad access to

products and services

IQVIA employees across our labs and services businesses, leaders

Privacy Quality products

across key functions such as Finance, Environmental Health & Safety,

and services

HR, Legal, Procurement, Risk, Sales, and Sustainability to provide Bioethics

Impact Use of AI to improve

their perspective and evaluation on the topics they believe are most

materiality services and support

material to IQVIA. Positive or Ethics and compliance efficiency

negative impacts

The engagement process began with group sessions focused on

on people and Attracting, developing

assessing the full range of sustainability topics from the CSRD and planet Employee and retaining talent

well-being

industry-specific topics identified based on the results of our previous

materiality assessment, alongside industry sustainability reports. We

validated the results through in-depth interviews with internal

Stakeholder requirements

and external stakeholders, giving them the opportunity to comment

on climate approach

on and challenge the assessment of each topic. Interviewees included

Low

suppliers, customers, investor representatives, and employees with

Financial materiality Highly

deep insights into IQVIA’s core business areas, including those from significant

Risks and opportunities to IQVIA

our labs, real estate, and services. In a final session, we gathered

input from our Sustainability Executive Steering Committee to

complete the assessment and produce our updated matrix. Our

Governance Customers and patients

results confirm that the topics material to us today are largely similar

to those identified in our 2022 assessment. This is aligned with our Workforce and productivity Climate

expectations, as the nature of our business and stakeholder interests

have not changed materially in this time.

12

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

Open stakeholder engagement

Through regular and transparent engagement with our stakeholders, we seek to understand their views and incorporate them into

our strategy and approach. This strengthens our business, drives us to improve our sustainability performance, and helps us

track progress while maximizing value for all those connected with the organization.

Stakeholder group Examples of how we communicate

• Company mobile app, Go IQ • Digital workplace • Employee hotline

EMPLOYEES

• Company surveys • Email communications • Frequent townhalls

• Formal governance,

• Direct outreach • Formal engagement processes

including Executive

CUSTOMERS • Sustainability forums and (RFPs and questionnaires) Steering Committees

working groups • IQVIA-led conferences

• Satisfaction surveys

• Annual shareholders meeting • In-person and virtual meetings

INVESTORS • IQVIA Investor Day

• Industry conferences • Targeted outreach

• Direct engagement • Research contributions

• Industry associations

PUBLIC • Thought leadership articles and through The IQVIA

• Conferences and roundtables

publications Institute for Data Science

GOVERNMENT

• Formal information

• Conferences and roundtables • Direct engagement

(AS REGULATORS AND requests and engagement

CUSTOMERS)

13

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

External frameworks SDG Our statement of commitment and 2024 highlights

Our sustainability strategy and reporting are informed

by gold-standard frameworks, including the:

We use our data insights and clinical expertise to help our partners

accelerate access to more advanced and affordable healthcare

• Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). See page 82 for our

treatments around the world. Read more on page 44.

2024 GRI index.

• Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB).

See page 96 for our 2024 SASB index.

• Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Our near- and We are committed to maintaining a culture of belonging in which

all employees can fully contribute to the growth and success of our

long-term greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets

business. Approximately 62% of our global employees are women,

are validated by the SBTi. Read more on page 70.

with 53% of women at the manager level. Read more on page 36.

• Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs we

believe are most relevant to our work and therefore

where IQVIA can make the most significant contribution

We are committed to reducing waste. In 2024, we expanded our

are listed to the right.

efforts to reduce single-use plastics in clinical trial testing kits and

• United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). IQVIA has strengthened our electronic waste (e-waste) management processes.

been a signatory to this compact since 2020 and reports See more on pages 75 and 78.

an annual Communication on Progress.¹

In 2024, we continued to reduce our impact on the environment.

50% of our suppliers by emissions have now set or committed to set

science-based targets, achieving 71% of our 2027 scope 3 supply

chain engagement target. See more on page 71.

1. https://www.iqvia.com/-/media/iqvia/pdfs/about-us/esg/united-nations-global-compact-communication-2023-2024

14

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

How we do

business matters.

Our guiding principles of passion, innovation,

collaboration and growth are underpinned

by a culture of ethical conduct and robust

governance across our value chain and

encompassing all stakeholders.

Foundations

16 Governance

18 Ethics and compliance

21 Data and data privacy

24 Cybersecurity

26 Human rights

26 Responsible procurement

Real World Solutions leadership held a townhall in

Sofia, Bulgaria to present an overview of ongoing

strategic initiatives around AI and the transformation

of our clinical technology capabilities.

15

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

Governance

Board of Directors

Corporate governance Oversees IQVIA’s overall sustainability strategy, including ethical business

conduct, talent retention and development, employee health and safety, and

Our corporate governance framework defines how we operate and monitors adherence to our Code of Conduct.

allocate responsibilities across IQVIA, including our governance of

sustainability matters. Our corporate governance framework guides our

decision-making, helping to ensure our accountability to all stakeholders

Lead Independent Director, Chair of the Nominating and Chairman and Chief Executive

and transparency in our operations. All employees must demonstrate a John Leonard, M.D. Governance Committee, Officer, Ari Bousbib

Colleen Goggins

commitment to compliance as part of their performance goals.

Our Board oversees IQVIA’s strategy, operations, and performance, • Champions our • Leads oversight of • Integrates sustainability

sustainability efforts. sustainability matters into the broader

and our senior management leads the day-to-day management of the

including overall organization.

organization. For more details on IQVIA’s corporate governance, read • Engages with strategy and reporting.

• Engages with senior

our latest Annual Report1 and Proxy Statement.² Sustainability-related stockholders, our CEO

• Considers key management,

and management team.

matters are being discussed more deeply and frequently within and sustainability-related stockholders and other

risk topics. key external stakeholders

between our various governance functions and channels.

on these topics.

Sustainability Executive Steering Committee

Guides and governs our overall sustainability objectives and initiatives.

Ari Bousbib Colleen Goggins John Leonard, M.D.

Chairman and Chair of the Nominating and Lead Independent Director and

Chief Executive Officer Governance Committee Nominating and Governance

Committee Member

Sustainability Working Group

• Drives performance of our sustainability initiatives, including operationalizing

our science-based targets and coordinating stakeholder engagement across

the organization.

• Regularly updates the Sustainability Executive Steering Committee.

Trudy Stein Ron Bruehlman Eric Sherbet

Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President,

1. https://s201.q4cdn.com/580005511/files/doc_financials/2024/q4/IQV-2024-12-31-10K_Filed-with-exhibits.pdf

Chief Human Resources Chief Financial Officer General Counsel and

2. https://d18rn0p25nwr6d.cloudfront.net/CIK-0001478242/d357f6ec-d32c-4a6d-bf91-5a507da403c8.pdf

Officer Secretary

16

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

Risk management

The following groups are responsible for managing

IQVIA’s enterprise risks:

Leadership Development and

Compensation Committee

• Oversees risks associated with

compensation policies and practices, Enterprise Risk Council

succession planning, and human capital

management policies and strategies.

• Made up of leaders from our principal

functional areas and business units.

Board

• Meets quarterly to identify and manage

our key risks, including sustainability-

Audit Committee

• Actively oversees our enterprise related risks, and is responsible for

risk management program through implementing and updating our

independent monitoring of strategic risks • Oversees financial statements and controls, enterprise risk framework.

and regularly scheduled meetings with policies relating to risk assessment and

management.

management, internal and external

• Delegates to its committees certain audit, cybersecurity, legal and regulatory

elements of its oversight function. Business Continuity and Disaster

compliance, and the effectiveness of our

Recovery team

• Receives regular updates from its ethics program.

committees on individual categories of

risk, and on oversight efforts, coordination • Creates strategies and processes to

and input from external advisors, as strengthen IQVIA’s organizational

Nominating and

appropriate.

resilience.

Governance Committee

• Determines our approach to managing

• Oversees governance structures, disruptive events and protecting and

practices and policies, sustainability recovering our critical systems and data

matters, director nominee processes, assets. Read more on page 43.

Board evaluation, and stockholder

priorities and engagement.

For information about our key business risks, see our Annual Report.¹

1. https://s201.q4cdn.com/580005511/files/doc_financials/2024/q4/IQV-2024-12-31-10K_Filed-with-exhibits.pdf

17

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

Our Code of Conduct

Our Code of Conduct, Doing the Right Thing,¹ outlines our guiding principles,

values, and expectations for employee behavior. It is a tool for ethical

decision-making — presenting realistic scenarios and resources to assist

employees with ethical choices.

The Code covers topics such as anti-bribery and anti-corruption,

interactions with healthcare professionals, patient safety and medical

ethics, sustainability and citizenship, business ethics, and data protection.

It is accessible on our website and digital workplace. Other key policies and

statements that outline expectations of ethical conduct include:

• Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy.² Outlines our commitment to

ethical conduct and compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws

IQVIA office, Bangalore, India

and regulations — covering directors, officers, employees, contractors, and

temporary staff.

Ethics and compliance

• Online Privacy Policy.³ Explains our online data collection practices and

the options users have about how their information is collected and used.

Our culture and approach

• Privacy Policy.⁴ Describes our commitment to privacy protection, outlining

how we collect, hold, use and disclose personal information.

Our commitment to ethical behavior and compliance is fundamental to our culture.

We hold our employees and suppliers to high standards, providing them • Statement on Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking.5 Explains our zero-

with guidance and tools to make ethical choices. We monitor and prepare tolerance approach to modern slavery and human trafficking and unethical

for applicable laws, regulations, and industry codes and standards, to support practices that may enable it. Read more on page 26.

compliance and adapt to evolving external expectations.

• Supplier Code of Conduct.⁶ Details our expectation for our suppliers to

In 2024, we continued our increased global focus on effective compliance programs act sustainably and ethically within their operations and throughout their

and anti-bribery and anti-corruption efforts. IQVIA’s ethics and compliance program supply chains. Read more on page 26.

is tailored to applicable guidance across our regions, and specifically designed

1. https://www.iqvia.com/about-us/code-of-conduct

to incentivize integrity. We strongly support the ability of all our employees

2. https://www.iqvia.com/about-us/anti-bribery-and-anti-corruption-policy

3. https://www.iqvia.com/about-us/privacy/online-privacy-policy

to seek guidance and to speak up as a vital means of maintaining corporate 4. https://www.iqvia.com/about-us/privacy/privacy-policy

5. https://www.iqvia.com/about-us/code-of-conduct/anti-slavery-and-human-trafficking-statement

transparency and a culture of compliance. 6. https://www.iqvia.com/-/media/iqvia/pdfs/about-us/suppliers/2023/iqvia-the-supplier-code-of-conduct-2023.pdf

18

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

A shared commitment to compliance

Maintaining a culture of compliance is a shared

responsibility. All employees and contractors must

adhere to our Code of Conduct and policies, and

IQVIA Ethics Day

Third-party complete all mandatory training on time. We assess

employees’ commitment to compliance in performance

relationships Our 2024 annual Ethics Day included

reviews, which inform annual incentive plan payments.

an all-employee webinar focusing

All IQVIA employees and contractors participate

IQVIA is committed to conducting

in a global mandatory training curriculum. This on behavior-based ethical decision-

business with integrity when we

engage third-parties on our behalf, develops their understanding of ethical behavior, making, designed to help people

outlines our expectations regarding key topics, and

as their behavior can directly impact speak up and change course. We

upholds our culture of compliance. It explains the

our ability to achieve our goals and

discussed how to spot ethical

consequences of non-compliance, both for individuals

those of the customers we serve. We

and for IQVIA. dilemmas and offered practical

conduct third-party due diligence to

ensure our suppliers operate ethically The curriculum, reinforced through infographics, live guidance. We shared details about

and legally. It is important to manage presentations, and messages from management, how reports to IQVIA’s Ethics Line

our relationships with suppliers includes mandatory courses such as Anti-Bribery &

are handled, the types of reports we

responsibly, including the way we Anti-Corruption, Code of Conduct with certification,

receive, and the types of behavior

choose, contract, and monitor them. Data Privacy, Global Security Awareness, Preventing

Harassment in the Workplace, and Social Media. We that can lead to employment

tailor our training curriculum by region to respect

corrective action.

Read more about our approach to local requirements and include reminders on various

supplier relationships on page 26. internal media channels such as our employee news

platform.

19

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

IQVIA has a strict policy of non-retaliation. In our 88,000-employee company, it is essential that everyone

Ethics governance

feels comfortable and capable of raising concerns to help us quickly identify issues and maintain a culture

The Ethics and Compliance Office (ECO) develops of ethics and compliance. Employees can contact managers, the ECO, the Legal department, Human Resources,

and implements our ethics and compliance or the Internal Audit department to raise concerns. Alternatively, anyone within or outside IQVIA can submit a

program. As a key function in our enterprise risk concern through our 24/7 global Ethics Line. This is operated by an independent third-party and allows reports to

management program, the ECO takes a scalable be anonymous to the extent permitted by law. We investigate all reports received and take action accordingly.

approach focused on instilling a culture of ethical

behavior, good business practices, and mitigating The types of matters received by the ECO vary.

risks. To achieve this, the ECO collaborates with

2023 and 2024 combined: Concerned

functions and business leaders across IQVIA,

third-party matters (1%)

including Finance, Legal, Human Resources,

Concerned

Internal Audit, the Chief Medical and Scientific

business matters (27%)

Office, and Enterprise Quality Assurance. The

ECO is led by our Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), Inquiries seeking guidance

a member of IQVIA’s Enterprise Risk Council. The on ethical conduct (38%)

CCO updates the Audit Committee of the Board of

Directors quarterly.

We conduct an annual risk assessment, using

feedback from relevant stakeholders and other

program inputs, to identify and mitigate emerging

Concerned

risks and drive our risk-based activities. In 2024, we

employee matters (34%)

enhanced the process by:

• Incorporating learnings from our audits, The high proportion of inquiries by

monitoring, and broader ECO efforts as part of employees seeking guidance testifies

to their efforts to do the right thing

the ECO’s dynamic, closed-loop, and targeted

before they act.

approach.

Employee awareness of channels to raise concerns

• Reviewing and updating our list of risk

assessment survey participants to ensure

3 points above the

Fortune 500 benchmark

comprehensive coverage.

94.5 % of employees say they are aware

of how to report ethical concerns

or observed misconduct.¹

1. Survey results from the second of our two 2024 global employees surveys.

20

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

Data and data privacy

Championing compliance

We oversee one of the largest healthcare datasets globally, with more than 64

IQVIA’s global network of Compliance Champions acts as a conduit petabytes of proprietary data from 150,000+ suppliers, including 1.2 billion non-

between the ECO and the countries where we operate. They offer vital identified patient records.

local insights and guidance to bring our global compliance programs

IQVIA is a global leader in protecting individual patient privacy. We use a wide variety

to life, serve as points of contact for program initiatives, and amplify

of privacy-enhancing technologies and safeguards to protect individual privacy while

compliance messages and awareness.

generating and analyzing information on a scale that helps healthcare stakeholders

identify disease patterns and correlate with the precise treatment path and therapy

needed for better outcomes.

NEARLY Compliance

100 The use of non-identified patient data for population health and other research

Champions globally

preserves privacy without sacrificing potential medical insights and includes a range

of transformations to remove or alter direct and indirect identifiers without impacting

the value of the data. Data used for these purposes are rendered non-identified before

Strengthening bonds we receive them. Our standards and practices regarding the use of non-identified

data for research purposes have been shared across our industry.

The ECO Compliance Champions support streamlining communication

and fostering deeper collaboration between teams. The ECO began IQVIA’s Global Privacy team, led by our Chief Privacy Officer, identifies potential

regular case sharing sessions to further enhance this effect, enabling privacy risks and opportunities and evolves our data protection strategy accordingly.

teams to share their perspectives and learn from each other. The team works closely with leading researchers, policy makers, thought leaders and

These positive outcomes reinforce the value of cross departmental others in a variety of fields relevant to the application of effective privacy and security

collaboration. practices, including statistical, epidemiological and cryptographic sciences, legal,

information security, compliance, and privacy. Our Global Privacy Policy1 provides

Tackling root causes further insights into our approach to data privacy.

Whenever we uncover potential issues during compliance audits, tackling

the root cause is as important as addressing the matter at hand. For

Healthcare-grade AI™

example, in 2024, a Compliance Champion from the Quality Management

IQVIA’s breadth and depth of data, combined with our AI models and

team partnered with the ECO to respond to audit findings and assist with

multidisciplinary expertise, enable us to offer AI solutions that truly meet

training programs and workshops.

the needs of healthcare within standards of privacy and trust in our industry.

The training delves deep into the nuances of compliance, ensuring

Read about IQVIA’s Healthcare-grade AI™ on page 65.

participants are well-equipped to excel.

1. https://www.iqvia.com/about-us/privacy/privacy-policy

21

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

Collective advancement of privacy practices

High standards of data privacy must be universal to be effective. Together with peers and

stakeholders within and beyond our industry, we work to determine best practices, inform

policies, and create solutions. We support a shared, systematic approach to data privacy

practices, advancing medical research while preserving patients’ privacy.

Our collaborations include:

• Health Information Trust Alliance (HITRUST). Our Global Chief Privacy officer sits on the

board of this non-profit, offering a data protection and privacy point of view when setting

standards related to information security and cybersecurity protections. HITRUST assesses

and certifies organizations’ information security and cybersecurity approaches, reassuring

their stakeholders and supporting a common global approach.

A shared responsibility for privacy

• Future of Privacy Forum (FPF). Through this non-profit, we collaborate with a wide range

of stakeholders to define privacy protections, ethical norms, and leading business practices.

All our employees play a role in data privacy, and it is vital

Our Global Chief Privacy Officer sits on the advisory board. We have representatives in

they understand its importance. Our employees are trained

several working groups.

to follow the guidelines we create, raise any concerns,

and manage data according to best practices. Internal • Centre for Information Policy Leadership (CIPL). We work with the staff and members

engagement activities include: of the CIPL, a global privacy and data policy think tank, to create global solutions for

responsible data use and privacy.

• Annual data privacy course. To educate our entire

workforce about the latest developments and best • Healthcare Leadership Council’s Confidentiality Coalition. We collaborate with a broad

practices. range of stakeholders to identify and support policies and practices that best advance

information exchange without risking patient privacy or personal data.

• Onboarding training. Including a data privacy module

for all new employees, and training in privacy and data • Healthcare Trust Institute. Joining a wide range of stakeholders in the healthcare industry,

protection for all new Board members. we collaborate by advancing policies that will improve healthcare while protecting patient

privacy.

• Regular updates. To all Board members, covering data-

related legal developments. • Association of Clinical Research Organizations (ACRO). We collaborate to present realistic

solutions and new approaches to policy makers, helping them create regulations that

• Targeted trainings. For different categories of

encourage safe, ethical, high-quality research.

employees.

22

IQVIA 2024 Sustainability Report | iqvia.com/about-us/sustainability

INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS PEOPLE PUBLIC PLANET ANNEX

AI governance

IQVIA employs a wide variety of policies,

Information governance

procedures, guidelines, training, communications

and other materials to support the responsible

At IQVIA, information governance (IG)

use of AI technologies, including generative AI, to

refers to the management of compliance

comply with legislation such as the EU AI Act:

requirements associated with the

• For higher risk AI activities, we have established

responsible use of data — including the

procedures and methodologies to evaluate or

receipt, processing, access, use, distribution

governance policies and practices relating to

test input, AI models, output and other aspects

and deletion of data. IG requirements come

data privacy, information security, intellectual

of AI use for error, bias, hallucinations and

from various sources, including contracts,

property management, contract compliance,

results that are not otherwise fit for the intended

data privacy, data localization, information

vendor management and related domains. IQVIA

purpose.

security, intellectual property, legal

has extensive policies and practices addressing

• For lower risk activities, a variety of policies, compliance, commercial requirements, and

these topics, and substantial resources and

standard operating procedures, guidance and stakeholder sensitivities. Our IG program

experience in each of these domains.

training support our employees in the use of AI brings these requirements together

• Effective, responsible use of AI also depends

models — for example, the use of AI assistants holistically to make it

[Content truncated due to length...]